1. Indian J Pharmacol. 2016 Sep-Oct;48(5):490-497. doi: 10.4103/0253-7613.190719.

Benefits of antihypertensive medications for anthracycline- and 
trastuzumab-induced cardiotoxicity in patients with breast cancer: Insights from 
recent clinical trials.

Rygiel K(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Family Practice, Medical University of Silesia (SUM), Katowice, 
Poland.

Advances in oncologic therapies have allowed many patients with breast cancer to 
achieve better outcomes and longer survival. However, this progress has been 
tempered by cardiotoxicity, associated with anticancer therapies, ranging from 
subclinical abnormalities to irreversible life-threatening complications, such 
as congestive heart failure or cardiomyopathy. In particular, exposure to 
chemotherapy (CHT), including anthracyclines and trastuzumab, can lead to 
cardiac dysfunction with short- or long-term consequences, among patients with 
breast cancer. The aim of this study is to highlight the potential role of 
commonly used cardiac medications in the prevention of anthracycline- and 
trastuzumab-mediated cardiotoxicity, in women with breast cancer, based on 
evidence from recent clinical trials. This overview is focused on the use of 
antihypertensive medications, such as angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors 
and angiotensin receptor blockers, outlining their cardioprotective effects in 
this patient population. In addition, the importance of biomarkers and modern 
imaging tests, as potential tools for detection and monitoring of cardiac 
dysfunction, induced by CHT, as well as some practical preventive and 
therapeutic strategies for cardio-oncology treatment teams, involved in the 
management of a growing number of women with breast cancer have been outlined. 
The content of this overview is based on a literature search of PubMed, within 
the last 5 years, mostly in relevance to the human epidermal growth factor 
receptor 2-positive patients with breast cancer, treated with anthracycline or 
trastuzumab therapy (in addition to surgery and/or radiation therapy [RT] 
regimen).

DOI: 10.4103/0253-7613.190719
PMCID: PMC5051240
PMID: 27721532 [Indexed for MEDLINE]