1. Adv Ther. 2025 Jun;42(6):2767-2781. doi: 10.1007/s12325-025-03164-0. Epub 2025
 Apr 8.

A Cost-Effectiveness Analysis of Abemaciclib in Combination with Adjuvant 
Endocrine Therapy for HR+, HER2-, Node-Positive, High-Risk Early Breast Cancer.

Davie A(1), Traoré S(2), Badreldin W(3), Torstensson A(4), Cakar E(5), 
McCullough AC(6), Tempelaar S(7), Fenwick E(8), Hall PS(9).

Author information:
(1)Eli Lilly and Company Limited, Bracknell, UK. DAVIE_ALISON@LILLY.COM.
(2)Eli Lilly and Company Limited, Bracknell, UK.
(3)Eli Lilly and Company Limited, Basingstoke, UK.
(4)Eli Lilly Sweden AB, Solna, Sweden.
(5)Formerly OPEN Health, Rotterdam, Netherlands.
(6)Formerly OPEN Health, York, UK.
(7)OPEN Health, Rotterdam, Netherlands.
(8)OPEN Health, Oxford, UK.
(9)MRC Institute of Genetics & Molecular Medicine, Edinburgh, UK.

INTRODUCTION: The monarchE trial demonstrated that the addition of 2 years of 
abemaciclib to adjuvant endocrine therapy (ET) significantly reduced the risk of 
disease recurrence in patients with hormone receptor positive (HR+), and human 
epidermal growth factor receptor 2-negative (HER2-), node-positive early breast 
cancer (EBC) at high risk of disease recurrence. Abemaciclib meets a critical 
unmet need for more effective adjuvant therapy for this patient population. This 
study evaluates the cost-effectiveness (CE) of abemaciclib plus ET compared to 
ET alone.
METHODS: A five-state cohort transition model, which presents a United Kingdom 
(UK) perspective, is parameterized using data from the monarchE trial and 
literature. Cost-effectiveness results are presented in terms of 
cost/quality-adjusted life year (QALY) over a lifetime time horizon. Various 
assumptions were tested through sensitivity and scenario analyses and 
uncertainty was assessed through probabilistic analysis.
RESULTS: Patients receiving abemaciclib plus ET were predicted to experience 
higher QALYs (11.16 compared to 10.42) at an increased cost (£87,541 compared to 
£48,625), leading to an incremental cost-effectiveness ratio (ICER) of £52,317 
per QALY gain compared to ET alone. The increased costs associated with the 
addition of abemaciclib were partially offset by a reduction in distant disease 
recurrence and associated costs. The scenario and sensitivity analyses supported 
robust base case results.
CONCLUSION: Despite the ICER exceeding usual willingness-to-pay (WTP) levels in 
the UK, a consequence of using list prices, the CE model utilizing the latest 
data cut from the monarchE trial, demonstrated that the upfront cost of 
abemaciclib reduces the risk of a terminal breast cancer prognosis and its 
associated cost and quality of life impact. The addition of 2 years of 
abemaciclib provides an option for the treatment of HR+, HER2-, node-positive, 
high-risk EBC.

© 2025. The Author(s).

DOI: 10.1007/s12325-025-03164-0
PMCID: PMC12085336
PMID: 40198522 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declarations. Conflict of Interest: Alison 
Davie, Sory Traoré, Waleed Badreldin and Astrid Torstensson are all employees of 
Eli Lilly and Company. Peter S Hall has disclosed an advisory role with Eli 
Lilly and Company Ltd.; for which an honorarium was received for consultancy in 
the development of this study. Esra Cakar and Anuja C. McCullough were employees 
of OPEN Health HEOR & Market Access at the time that the work was undertaken. 
Esra Cakar is now an employee of Pfizer. Anuja C. McCullough is now an employee 
of the National Institute for Health and Care Excellence. Susan Tempelaar and 
Elisabeth Fenwick are employees of OPEN Health HEOR & Market Access. OPEN Health 
HEOR & Market Access received funding from Eli Lilly and Company Ltd. for 
consultancy and study development. Ethical Approval: This study was based on a 
previously conducted randomized, open-label phase 3 study and does not contain 
any new data evaluating human participants or animals. Eli Lilly and Company 
Ltd. approve the use of these data.