1. JAMA Surg. 2021 Jun 1;156(6):e210891. doi: 10.1001/jamasurg.2021.0891. Epub
2021  Jun 9.

Axillary Pathologic Complete Response After Neoadjuvant Systemic Therapy by 
Breast Cancer Subtype in Patients With Initially Clinically Node-Positive 
Disease: A Systematic Review and Meta-analysis.

Samiei S(1)(2)(3), Simons JM(3), Engelen SME(1), Beets-Tan RGH(3)(4), Classe 
JM(5), Smidt ML(1)(3); EUBREAST Group.

Author information:
(1)Department of Surgery, Maastricht University Medical Center, Maastricht, the 
Netherlands.
(2)Department of Radiology and Nuclear Medicine, Maastricht University Medical 
Center, Maastricht, the Netherlands.
(3)GROW-School for Oncology and Developmental Biology, Maastricht University, 
Maastricht, the Netherlands.
(4)Department of Radiology, the Netherlands Cancer Institute, Amsterdam.
(5)Department of Surgical Oncology, Institut de Cancérologie de l'Ouest, 
Saint-Herblain, Loire Atlantique, France.

IMPORTANCE: An overview of rates of axillary pathologic complete response (pCR) 
for all breast cancer subtypes, both for patients with and without 
pathologically proven clinically node-positive disease, is lacking.
OBJECTIVE: To provide pooled data of all studies in the neoadjuvant setting on 
axillary pCR rates for different breast cancer subtypes in patients with 
initially clinically node-positive disease.
DATA SOURCES: The electronic databases Embase and PubMed were used to conduct a 
systematic literature search on July 16, 2020. The references of the included 
studies were manually checked to identify other eligible studies.
STUDY SELECTION: Studies in the neoadjuvant therapy setting were identified 
regarding axillary pCR for different breast cancer subtypes in patients with 
initially clinically node-positive disease (ie, defined as node-positive before 
the initiation of neoadjuvant systemic therapy).
DATA EXTRACTION AND SYNTHESIS: Two reviewers independently selected eligible 
studies according to the inclusion criteria and extracted all data. All 
discrepant results were resolved during a consensus meeting. To identify the 
different subtypes, the subtype definitions as reported by the included articles 
were used. The random-effects model was used to calculate the overall pooled 
estimate of axillary pCR for each breast cancer subtype.
MAIN OUTCOMES AND MEASURES: The main outcome of this study was the rate of 
axillary pCR and residual axillary lymph node disease after neoadjuvant systemic 
therapy for different breast cancer subtypes, differentiating studies with and 
without patients with pathologically proven clinically node-positive disease.
RESULTS: This pooled analysis included 33 unique studies with 57 531 unique 
patients and showed the following axillary pCR rates for each of the 7 reported 
subtypes in decreasing order: 60% for hormone receptor (HR)-negative/ERBB2 
(formerly HER2)-positive, 59% for ERBB2-positive (HR-negative or HR-positive), 
48% for triple-negative, 45% for HR-positive/ERBB2-positive, 35% for luminal B, 
18% for HR-positive/ERBB2-negative, and 13% for luminal A breast cancer. No 
major differences were found in the axillary pCR rates per subtype by analyzing 
separately the studies of patients with and without pathologically proven 
clinically node-positive disease before neoadjuvant systemic therapy.
CONCLUSIONS AND RELEVANCE: The HR-negative/ERBB2-positive subtype was associated 
with the highest axillary pCR rate. These data may help estimate axillary 
treatment response in the neoadjuvant setting and thus select patients for more 
or less invasive axillary procedures.

DOI: 10.1001/jamasurg.2021.0891
PMCID: PMC8060891
PMID: 33881478 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Conflict of Interest Disclosures: Dr Smidt 
reported receiving grants from Servier Laboratories microbiome research, outside 
the submitted work. Dr Reimer reported receiving personal fees from Pfizer Inc 
and grants from German Cancer Aid and Else Kröner-Fresenius-Stiftung outside the 
submitted work. No other disclosures were reported.