1. Clin Pharmacokinet. 2013 Aug;52(8):657-72. doi: 10.1007/s40262-013-0060-y.

An integrated multiple-analyte pharmacokinetic model to characterize trastuzumab 
emtansine (T-DM1) clearance pathways and to evaluate reduced pharmacokinetic 
sampling in patients with HER2-positive metastatic breast cancer.

Lu D(1), Joshi A, Wang B, Olsen S, Yi JH, Krop IE, Burris HA, Girish S.

Author information:
(1)Genentech Inc., 1 DNA Way, South San Francisco, CA 94080, USA. 
lu.dan@gene.com

BACKGROUND AND OBJECTIVE: Trastuzumab emtansine (T-DM1) is an antibody-drug 
conjugate recently approved by the US Food and Drug Administration for the 
treatment of human epidermal growth factor receptor 2 (HER2)-positive metastatic 
breast cancer previously treated with trastuzumab and taxane chemotherapy. It 
comprises the microtubule inhibitory cytotoxic agent DM1 conjugated to the 
HER2-targeted humanized monoclonal antibody trastuzumab via a stable linker. To 
characterize the pharmacokinetics of T-DM1 in patients with metastatic breast 
cancer, concentrations of multiple analytes were quantified, including serum 
concentrations of T-DM1 conjugate and total trastuzumab (the sum of conjugated 
and unconjugated trastuzumab), as well as plasma concentrations of DM1. The 
clearance of T-DM1 conjugate is approximately 2 to 3 times faster than its 
parent antibody, trastuzumab. However, the clearance pathways accounting for 
this faster clearance rate are unclear. An integrated population pharmacokinetic 
model that simultaneously fits the pharmacokinetics of T-DM1 conjugate and total 
trastuzumab can help to elucidate the clearance pathways of T-DM1. The model can 
also be used to predict total trastuzumab pharmacokinetic profiles based on 
T-DM1 conjugate pharmacokinetic data and sparse total trastuzumab 
pharmacokinetic data, thereby reducing the frequency of pharmacokinetic 
sampling.
METHODS: T-DM1 conjugate and total trastuzumab serum concentration data, 
including baseline trastuzumab concentrations prior to T-DM1 treatment, from 
phase I and II studies were used to develop this integrated population 
pharmacokinetic model. Based on a hypothetical T-DM1 catabolism scheme, 
two-compartment models for T-DM1 conjugate and trastuzumab were integrated by 
assuming a one-step deconjugation clearance from T-DM1 conjugate to trastuzumab. 
The ability of the model to predict the total trastuzumab pharmacokinetic 
profile based on T-DM1 conjugate pharmacokinetics and various sampling schemes 
of total trastuzumab pharmacokinetics was assessed to evaluate total trastuzumab 
sampling schemes.
RESULTS: The final model reflects a simplified catabolism scheme of T-DM1, 
suggesting that T-DM1 clearance pathways include both deconjugation and 
proteolytic degradation. The model fits T-DM1 conjugate and total trastuzumab 
pharmacokinetic data simultaneously. The deconjugation clearance of T-DM1 was 
estimated to be ~0.4 L/day. Proteolytic degradation clearances for T-DM1 and 
trastuzumab were similar (~0.3 L/day). This model accurately predicts total 
trastuzumab pharmacokinetic profiles based on T-DM1 conjugate pharmacokinetic 
data and sparse total trastuzumab pharmacokinetic data sampled at preinfusion 
and end of infusion in cycle 1, and in one additional steady state cycle.
CONCLUSIONS: This semi-mechanistic integrated model links T-DM1 conjugate and 
total trastuzumab pharmacokinetic data, and supports the inclusion of both 
proteolytic degradation and deconjugation as clearance pathways in the 
hypothetical T-DM1 catabolism scheme. The model attributes a faster T-DM1 
conjugate clearance versus that of trastuzumab to the presence of a 
deconjugation process and suggests a similar proteolytic clearance of T-DM1 and 
trastuzumab. Based on the model and T-DM1 conjugate pharmacokinetic data, a 
sparse pharmacokinetic sampling scheme for total trastuzumab provides an entire 
pharmacokinetic profile with similar predictive accuracy to that of a dense 
pharmacokinetic sampling scheme.

DOI: 10.1007/s40262-013-0060-y
PMID: 23553425 [Indexed for MEDLINE]