1. Jpn J Clin Oncol. 2022 Oct 6;52(10):1115-1123. doi: 10.1093/jjco/hyac107.

Cost-effectiveness analysis of trastuzumab monotherapy versus adjuvant 
chemotherapy plus trastuzumab in elderly patients with HER2-positive early 
breast cancer.

Konishi T(1)(2), Fujiogi M(2)(3), Michihata N(4), Ohbe H(2), Matsui H(2), 
Fushimi K(5), Tanabe M(1), Seto Y(1), Yasunaga H(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Breast and Endocrine Surgery, Graduate School of Medicine, The 
University of Tokyo, Tokyo, Japan.
(2)Department of Clinical Epidemiology and Health Economics, School of Public 
Health, The University of Tokyo, Tokyo, Japan.
(3)Department of Emergency Medicine, Massachusetts General Hospital, Harvard 
Medical School, Boston, MA.
(4)Department of Health Services Research, Graduate School of Medicine, The 
University of Tokyo, Tokyo, Japan.
(5)Department of Health Policy and Informatics, Tokyo Medical and Dental 
University Graduate School, Tokyo, Japan.

BACKGROUND: In elderly patients with human epidermal growth factor 2-positive 
breast cancer, adjuvant chemotherapy was associated with decreased quality of 
life, with relatively small benefits for prognosis. We examined the 
cost-effectiveness of trastuzumab monotherapy versus adjuvant chemotherapy plus 
trastuzumab in elderly patients with human epidermal growth factor 2-positive 
breast cancer.
METHODS: A Markov model was developed to evaluate the costs and benefits of 
trastuzumab monotherapy over adjuvant chemotherapy plus trastuzumab for elderly 
patients with human epidermal growth factor 2-positive breast cancer. We built 
the model with a yearly cycle over a 20-year time horizon and five health 
states: disease-free, relapse, post-relapse, metastasis and death. The 
parameters in the model were based on a previous randomized controlled trial and 
a nationwide administrative database in Japan. The incremental 
cost-effectiveness ratio, expressed as Japanese yen per the quality-adjusted 
life-years, was estimated from the perspective of health care payers. One-way 
deterministic sensitivity analysis and probabilistic sensitivity analysis with 
Monte-Carlo simulations of 10 000 samples were conducted.
RESULTS: The incremental cost-effectiveness ratio of trastuzumab monotherapy 
over adjuvant chemotherapy plus trastuzumab was $\sim$1.8 million Japanese yen 
/quality-adjusted life-year. The one-way deterministic sensitivity analysis 
showed that transition probability from disease-free to metastasis status and 
cost of metastasis status had the greatest influence on the incremental 
cost-effectiveness ratio. More than half the estimates in the probabilistic 
sensitivity analysis were located below a threshold of willingness-to-pay of 5 
million Japanese yen /quality-adjusted life-year.
CONCLUSION: In this first comparative cost-effectiveness analysis of adjuvant 
chemotherapy plus trastuzumab versus trastuzumab monotherapy in the elderly, the 
latter was found favorable for elderly patients with human epidermal growth 
factor 2-positive breast cancer.

© The Author(s) 2022. Published by Oxford University Press. All rights reserved. 
For permissions, please e-mail: journals.permission@oup.com.

DOI: 10.1093/jjco/hyac107
PMID: 35775313 [Indexed for MEDLINE]