1. Curr Opin Mol Ther. 2010 Jun;12(3):350-60.

Trastuzumab emtansine, an antibody-drug conjugate for the treatment of HER2+ 
metastatic breast cancer.

Niculescu-Duvaz I(1).

Author information:
(1)Institute of Cancer Research, Cancer Research Campaign Centre for Cancer 
Therapeutics, 15 Cotswold Road, Sutton, Surrey, SM2 5NG, UK. ion@icr.ac.uk

Roche Holding AG, and its subsidiaries Genentech Inc and Chugai Pharmaceutical 
Co Ltd, are developing trastuzumab emtansine (trastuzumab-DM1) for the treatment 
of HER2+ metastatic breast cancer. Trastuzumab emtansine is a tumor-activated 
prodrug resulting from the conjugation of the humanized anti-HER2 mAb 
trastuzumab, which has been used in the treatment of breast cancer for over 10 
years, with ImmunoGen Inc's cytotoxic and antimitotic maytansine derivative DM1. 
The maytansinoids bind microtubules in a manner similar to the vinca alkaloids; 
however, maytansinoids have been recognized to be 20- to 100-fold more potent at 
blocking mitosis. Nevertheless, the use of these compounds as single agents is 
limited by toxicity. By conjugating DM1 with trastuzumab, the delivery of the 
cytotoxic agent to target cells is more specific and reduces the safety 
concerns. In preclinical studies, the conjugation was effective in breast cancer 
cell lines resistant to trastuzumab, and demonstrated complete tumor regression 
in SCID mice bearing KPL4 breast cancer xenografts. Clinically, trastuzumab 
emtansine exhibited efficacy in patients with HER2+ metastatic breast cancer who 
had progressed on previous chemotherapy regimens or with trastuzumab therapy. 
Furthermore, preclinical studies have reported that trastuzumab emtansine 
potentiates the effect of a number of chemotherapeutic agents (including 
carboplatin, 5-fluorouracil and docetaxel), other antibodies, receptor tyrosine 
kinase inhibitors and PI3K inhibitors, and many of these combinations are set to 
be tested in humans. Trastuzumab emtansine offers an exciting new option for the 
treatment of patients with refractory, metastatic breast cancer.

PMID: 20521224 [Indexed for MEDLINE]