1. J Biomed Opt. 2019 Aug;24(8):1-9. doi: 10.1117/1.JBO.24.8.086503.

Second-harmonic generation directionality is associated with neoadjuvant 
chemotherapy response in breast cancer core needle biopsies.

Desa DE(1), Bhanote M(2), Hill RL(3), Majeski JB(1), Buscaglia B(4), D'Aguiar 
M(4), Strawderman R(5), Hicks DG(2), Turner BM(2), Brown EB(1).

Author information:
(1)University of Rochester, Hajim School of Engineering and Applied Sciences, 
Department of Biomedical, United States.
(2)University of Rochester Medical Center, School of Medicine and Dentistry, 
Department of Pathology an, United States.
(3)Harmonigenic Corporation, Rochester, New York, United States.
(4)Rochester Institute of Technology, Kate Gleason College of Engineering, 
Department of Biomedical Eng, United States.
(5)University of Rochester Medical Center, School of Medicine and Dentistry, 
Department of Biostatistic, United States.

Neoadjuvant chemotherapy (NACT) is routinely administered to subsets of breast 
cancer patients, including triple negative (TN) or human epidermal growth factor 
receptor 2-positive (HER2+) cancers. After NACT and subsequent surgical 
resection, 5% to 30% of patients have no residual invasive carcinoma, termed 
pathological complete response. Unfortunately, many patients experience 
little-to-no response after NACT and unnecessarily suffer its side effects. 
Methods are needed to predict an individual patient’s response to NACT. Core 
needle biopsies, taken before NACT, consist of tumor cells and the surrounding 
extracellular matrix. We performed second-harmonic generation (SHG) imaging of 
fibrillar collagen in core needle biopsy sections as a possible predictor of 
response to NACT. The ratio of forward-to-backward scattering (F/B) SHG was 
assessed in the “tumor bulk” and “tumor–host interface” in HER2+ and TN core 
needle biopsy sections. Patient response was classified post-treatment using the 
Residual Cancer Burden (RCB) score. In HER2+ biopsies, RCB class was associated 
with F/B derived from the tumor–stromal interface, but not tumor bulk. F/B was 
not associated with RCB class in TN biopsies. These findings suggest that F/B 
from needle biopsy sections may be a useful predictor of which patients will 
respond favorably to NACT, with the potential to help reduce overtreatment.

DOI: 10.1117/1.JBO.24.8.086503
PMCID: PMC6983524
PMID: 31456385 [Indexed for MEDLINE]