1. PLoS One. 2016 Feb 17;11(2):e0142047. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0142047. 
eCollection 2016.

Effect of Imaging Parameter Thresholds on MRI Prediction of Neoadjuvant 
Chemotherapy Response in Breast Cancer Subtypes.

Lo WC(1), Li W(1), Jones EF(1), Newitt DC(1), Kornak J(2), Wilmes LJ(1), 
Esserman LJ(3), Hylton NM(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Radiology and Biomedical Imaging, University of California San 
Francisco, San Francisco, California, United States of America.
(2)Department of Epidemiology and Biostatistics, University of California San 
Francisco, San Francisco, California, United States of America.
(3)Department of Surgery and Radiology, University of California San Francisco, 
San Francisco, California, United States of America.

The purpose of this study is to evaluate the predictive performance of magnetic 
resonance imaging (MRI) markers in breast cancer patients by subtype. Sixty-four 
patients with locally advanced breast cancer undergoing neoadjuvant chemotherapy 
were enrolled in this study. Each patient received a dynamic contrast-enhanced 
(DCE-MRI) at baseline, after 1 cycle of chemotherapy and before surgery. 
Functional tumor volume (FTV), the imaging marker measured by DCE-MRI, was 
computed at various thresholds of percent enhancement (PEt) and 
signal-enhancement ratio (SERt). Final FTV before surgery and percent changes of 
FTVs at the early and final treatment time points were used to predict patients' 
recurrence-free survival. The full cohort and each subtype defined by the status 
of hormone receptor and human epidermal growth factor receptor 2 (HR+/HER2-, 
HER2+, triple negative) were analyzed. Predictions were evaluated using the Cox 
proportional hazard model when PEt changed from 30% to 200% in steps of 10% and 
SERt changed from 0 to 2 in steps of 0.2. Predictions with high hazard ratios 
and low p-values were considered as strong. Different profiles of FTV as 
predictors for recurrence-free survival were observed in each breast cancer 
subtype and strong associations with survival were observed at different 
PEt/SERt combinations that resulted in different FTVs. Findings from this 
retrospective study suggest that the predictive performance of imaging markers 
based on FTV may be improved with enhancement thresholds being optimized 
separately for clinically-relevant subtypes defined by HR and HER2 receptor 
expression.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0142047
PMCID: PMC4757528
PMID: 26886725 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Competing Interests: The authors have declared 
that no competing interests exist.