1. Clin Cancer Res. 2013 Dec 1;19(23):6360-70. doi:
10.1158/1078-0432.CCR-13-0916.

Neoadjuvant therapy as a platform for drug development and approval in breast 
cancer.

Bardia A(1), Baselga J.

Author information:
(1)Authors' Affiliations: Massachusetts General Hospital Cancer Center, Harvard 
Medical School, Boston, Massachusetts; and Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer 
Center, New York, New York.

The traditional drug development process in breast cancer based on large phase 
III studies has serious limitations and needs a major overhaul. Searching for 
new approaches, the testing of novel agents in the preoperative (neoadjuvant) 
setting approach offers a potentially rapid and efficient strategy for drug 
development utilizing pathologic complete response (path CR), a surrogate marker 
for survival, as the primary endpoint. In addition, neoadjuvant studies allow 
the assessment of drug effects on the target (pharmacodynamic response) and the 
development of predictive biomarkers of response. Molecular profiling of the 
residual tumor in the surgical specimen may also provide insights into 
actionable mechanisms of resistance. Recognizing the potential of neoadjuvant 
trials for drug development, the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA) 
recently announced consideration of neoadjuvant trials for accelerated drug 
approval in early breast cancer, particularly for tumors with high risk of 
recurrence and unfavorable prognosis, and provided accelerated approval to 
neoadjuvant pertuzumab in September 2013. The FDA has emphasized that while 
improvement in path CR could be utilized for "accelerated" approval, improvement 
in survival will still need to be demonstrated for "regular" approval. Key 
considerations in conduct of such neoadjuvant drug development trials include 
(i) study design such as utilization of biomarker stratified design to evaluate 
a biomarker that could enrich response, (ii) definition of path CR, (iii) 
distribution of factors that influence path CR between the treatment arms, (iv) 
prespecified plan for follow-up to obtain data on survival, and (v) safety as it 
involves a patient population with curable disease. In the years to come, we 
anticipate an increase in the number of neoadjuvant trials testing novel 
therapies that hopefully will open a new path in bringing efficacious new 
therapies to patients with breast cancer.

©2013 AACR.

DOI: 10.1158/1078-0432.CCR-13-0916
PMID: 24298066 [Indexed for MEDLINE]