1. BMC Cancer. 2016 Apr 18;16:274. doi: 10.1186/s12885-016-2302-5.

Identification of stromal ColXα1 and tumor-infiltrating lymphocytes as putative 
predictive markers of neoadjuvant therapy in estrogen 
receptor-positive/HER2-positive breast cancer.

Brodsky AS(1)(2), Xiong J(3), Yang D(4), Schorl C(5), Fenton MA(6), Graves 
TA(7), Sikov WM(8), Resnick MB(4), Wang Y(9)(10).

Author information:
(1)Department of Pathology and Laboratory Medicine, Rhode Island Hospital and 
Lifespan Medical Center, Warren Alpert Medical School of Brown University, 
Providence, USA. alex_brodsky@brown.edu.
(2)Department of Pathology, Rhode Island Hospital and Lifespan Medical Center, 
Providence, RI, 02903, USA. alex_brodsky@brown.edu.
(3)Department of Pathology, Women and Infants Hospital, Warren Alpert Medical 
School of Brown University, Providence, USA.
(4)Department of Pathology and Laboratory Medicine, Rhode Island Hospital and 
Lifespan Medical Center, Warren Alpert Medical School of Brown University, 
Providence, USA.
(5)Molecular Biology, Cell Biology, & Biochemistry, Brown University, 
Providence, USA.
(6)Department of Medicine, Rhode Island Hospital and Lifespan Medical Center, 
Warren Alpert Medical School of Brown University, Providence, USA.
(7)Department of Surgery, Rhode Island Hospital and Lifespan Medical Center, 
Warren Alpert Medical School of Brown University, Providence, USA.
(8)Program in Women's Oncology, Women and Infants Hospital, Warren Alpert 
Medical School of Brown University, Providence, USA.
(9)Department of Pathology and Laboratory Medicine, Rhode Island Hospital and 
Lifespan Medical Center, Warren Alpert Medical School of Brown University, 
Providence, USA. ywang6@lifespan.org.
(10)Department of Pathology, Rhode Island Hospital and Lifespan Medical Center, 
Providence, RI, 02903, USA. ywang6@lifespan.org.

BACKGROUND: The influence of the tumor microenvironment and tumor-stromal 
interactions on the heterogeneity of response within breast cancer subtypes have 
just begun to be explored. This study focuses on patients with estrogen 
receptor-positive/human epidermal growth factor receptor 2-positive (ER+/HER2+) 
breast cancer receiving neoadjuvant chemotherapy and HER2-targeted therapy 
(NAC+H), and was designed to identify novel predictive biomarkers by combining 
gene expression analysis and immunohistochemistry with pathologic response.
METHODS: We performed gene expression profiling on pre-NAC+H tumor samples from 
responding (no or minimal residual disease at surgery) and non-responding 
patients. Gene set enrichment analysis identified potentially relevant pathways, 
and immunohistochemical staining of pre-treatment biopsies was used to measure 
protein levels of those pathways, which were correlated with pathologic response 
in both univariate and multivariate analysis.
RESULTS: Increased expression of genes encoding for stromal collagens, including 
Col10A1, and reduced expression of immune-associated genes, reflecting lower 
levels of total tumor-infiltrating lymphocytes (TILs), were strongly associated 
with poor pathologic response. Lower TILs in tumor biopsies correlated with 
reduced likelihood of achieving an optimal pathologic response, but increased 
expression of the Col10A1 gene product, colXα1, had greater predictive value 
than stromal abundance for poor response (OR = 18.9, p = 0.003), and the 
combination of increased colXα1 expression and low TILs was significantly 
associated with poor response in multivariate analysis. ROC analysis suggests 
strong specificity and sensitivity for this combination in predicting treatment 
response.
CONCLUSIONS: Increased expression of stromal colXα1 and low TILs correlate with 
poor pathologic response in ER+/HER2+ breast tumors. Further studies are needed 
to confirm their predictive value and impact on long-term outcomes, and to 
determine whether this collagen exerts a protective effect on the cancer cells 
or simply reflects other factors within the tumor microenvironment.

DOI: 10.1186/s12885-016-2302-5
PMCID: PMC4835834
PMID: 27090210 [Indexed for MEDLINE]