1. Ned Tijdschr Geneeskd. 2008 Nov 15;152(46):2519-25.

[Neoadjuvant systemic therapy in patients with operable primary breast cancer: 
more benefits than breast-conserving therapy].

[Article in Dutch]

Straver ME(1), van Adrichem JC, Rutgers EJ, Rodenhuis S, Linn SC, Loo CE, 
Gilhuijs KG, Oldenburg HS, Wesseling J, Russell NS, Antonini N, Vrancken Peeters 
MT.

Author information:
(1)Afd. Chirurgie, Nederlands Kanker Instituut-Antoni van Leeuwenhoek 
Ziekenhuis, Amsterdam.

OBJECTIVE: To analyse the extent to which primary systemic therapy (PST) 
achieves the main goals in patients with operable primary breast cancer, these 
goals being breast-conserving therapy and pathological complete remission (pCR), 
and to evaluate the response.
DESIGN: Retrospective.
METHOD: In a retrospective analysis of 254 patients treated with PST in 
2000-2007 in the Netherlands Cancer Institute-Antoni van Leeuwenhoek Hospital, 
patients with inoperable disease (T4 and/or N3) were excluded. The response was 
mostly evaluated using contrast-enhanced MRI, whereby the chemotherapy regimen 
was switched if the reduction in the largest diameter of contrast washout was 
less than 25%. pCR was defined as no evidence of invasive cancer in the breast 
and axilla in the resection specimen.
RESULTS: In patients with ductal carcinoma and lobular carcinoma an increase in 
breast-conserving therapy was seen in 32% and 17% of patients respectively. The 
pCR rate was 12% and 2% respectively. Secondary mastectomy because of irradical 
resection was required in 3% and 50% respectively. Multivariate analysis 
indicated that molecular type, defined on the basis of the expression of hormone 
receptors and human epidermal growth factor receptor 2 (HER2), i.e. luminal 
(oestrogen receptor-positive), basal (hormone receptor-negative and 
HER2-negative) and HER2-positive tumours treated with trastuzumab was the only 
independent predictor of pCR; 2%, 28% and 35% respectively (p=0.004). In 43 
patients the chemotherapy regimen was adjusted because the tumour did not 
respond sufficiently. A favourable clinical response was observed in 72% (31/43) 
of these patients.
CONCLUSION: The observed increase in the number of breast-conserving therapies 
after PST was clinically relevant. PST may be more effective when 
contrast-enhanced MRI is used for interim evaluation, based on which the 
treatment may be switched. There was a clear difference in histological and 
molecular types of tumour and therefore the choice of treatment may be adjusted 
accordingly.

PMID: 19055260 [Indexed for MEDLINE]