1. Breast. 2009 Oct;18 Suppl 3:S25-30. doi: 10.1016/S0960-9776(09)70268-1.

Aiming at the target: improved adjuvant medical therapy.

Bedard PL(1), Dinh P, Sotiriou C, Piccart-Gebhart MJ.

Author information:
(1)Department of Medical Oncology, Jules Bordet Institute, Rue Heger-Bordet 1, 
Brussels, Belgium.

The 2007 St. Gallen Expert Panel recognized the existence of molecular tools for 
risk stratification, but recommended the use of high-quality standard 
pathological testing alone for risk allocation and treatment selection. Over the 
last two years, much has been learned about these novel molecular tools: they 
demonstrate similar prognostic power; their performance appears to be driven by 
improved quantification of cellular proliferation; tumour burden remains an 
important determinant of long-term outcome; and their prediction of 
responsiveness to systemic therapy is suboptimal. In the meantime, great effort 
has continued to be invested in evaluating individual predictive markers to 
guide treatment selection. A number of putative targets that showed early 
promise--such as HER-2 and TOP2A gene amplification for anthracyclines, Myc 
amplification for trastuzumab, and Tau expression for taxanes--have yielded 
disappointing results when subjected to subsequent validation. These failings 
underscore the difficulty of accurate, reproducible target measurement and the 
inherent complexity of early breast cancer which is unlikely to be captured by a 
single gene or protein alteration. Future progress in adjuvant treatment 
tailoring will require a fundamental shift towards multi-dimensional 
thinking--with the development of multi-parameter assays that integrate tumour 
biology, disease burden, and host-related factors. The traditional model of post 
hoc predictive marker validation appears unlikely to produce tangible gains in 
the era of targeted systemic therapy. It is hoped that coupling prospective 
biomarker discovery with new drug development in earlier stages of disease will 
yield additional targets that can be used to guide clinical decision-making in 
the future.

DOI: 10.1016/S0960-9776(09)70268-1
PMID: 19914538 [Indexed for MEDLINE]