1. Am J Case Rep. 2024 Sep 19;25:e943936. doi: 10.12659/AJCR.943936.

Pathological Complete Response with Neoadjuvant Trastuzumab, Pertuzumab, and 
Chemotherapy Followed by Modified Radical Mastectomy in a Patient with 
HER2-Positive Occult Breast Cancer.

Chen C(1), Zhu J(1), Zhang C(1), Wang L(1), Li Y(1), Du M(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Oncological Surgery, The First Affiliated Hospital of Bengbu 
Medical College, Bengbu, Anhui, China.

BACKGROUND Occult breast cancer (OBC) is diagnosed when regional or distant 
metastases are found without evidence of a primary tumor. The low overall 
incidence is a great challenge for the management strategy of OBC. Aggressive 
diagnosis and personalized treatment are feasible treatment strategies for OBC. 
We report the case of an OBC patient who achieved pathological complete response 
(pCR) after neoadjuvant chemotherapy. CASE REPORT A 43-year-old woman was 
admitted to the hospital 6 months after detecting a lump in her left axilla, 
about the size of a quail egg, but not red or swollen, and the lump gradually 
grew. Mammography, ultrasound, and magnetic resonance imaging showed a visible 
left axilla lesion but no nodules in bilateral breasts. A core-needle biopsy of 
the axilla lesion revealed an invasive carcinoma of breast origin. The tumor 
cells were estrogen receptors (ER)-negative, progesterone receptor 
(PR)-negative, and HER2-positive (3+) by immunohistochemistry. The patient was 
finally diagnosed with HER2-positive, hormone receptor-negative occult breast 
cancer of the left breast, cT0N2M0, stage IIIA. The TCbHP regimen (docetaxel, 
carboplatin, trastuzumab, and pertuzumab) as neoadjuvant chemotherapy was given. 
She underwent a modified radical mastectomy, showing a pCR. Subsequent 
radiotherapy and HER2-targeted therapy were administrated. CONCLUSIONS This case 
highlights that even aggressive HER2-positive breast cancer can present as an 
occult primary tumor. Our clinical experience suggests that neoadjuvant 
chemotherapy followed by modified radical mastectomy can be effective for 
treating such rare cases. The patient achieved pCR, which can provide a 
therapeutic strategy for effective treatment of similar OBCs.

DOI: 10.12659/AJCR.943936
PMCID: PMC11421188
PMID: 39295126 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Conflict of interest: None declared