1. JAMA Oncol. 2022 Aug 1;8(8):1190-1194. doi: 10.1001/jamaoncol.2022.1488.

Treatment With Adjuvant Abemaciclib Plus Endocrine Therapy in Patients With 
High-risk Early Breast Cancer Who Received Neoadjuvant Chemotherapy: A 
Prespecified Analysis of the monarchE Randomized Clinical Trial.

Martin M(1), Hegg R(2), Kim SB(3), Schenker M(4), Grecea D(5), Garcia-Saenz 
JA(6), Papazisis K(7), Ouyang Q(8), Lacko A(9), Oksuzoglu B(10), Reeves J(11), 
Okera M(12), Testa L(13), Shimizu C(14), Denduluri N(15), Adamchuk H(16), Dakhil 
S(17), Wei R(18), Forrester T(18), Fernandez MM(18), Zimmermann A(18), Headley 
D(18), Johnston SRD(19).

Author information:
(1)Medical Oncology Service, Hospital General Universitario Gregorio Marañon, 
Universidad Complutense, Centro de Investigación Biomédica en Red-Cáncer, Grupo 
Español de Investigación en Cáncer de Mama, Madrid, Spain.
(2)Clinica de Pesquisa e Centro São Paulo, São Paulo, Brazil.
(3)Asan Medical Center, University of Ulsan College of Medicine, Seoul, Korea.
(4)Centrul de Oncologie Sf Nectarie SRL, University of Medicine and Pharmacy 
Craiova, Craiova, Romania.
(5)Institutul Oncologic "Prof.Dr. Ion Chiricuta" Cluj-Napoca, Cluj-Napoca, 
Romania.
(6)Medical Oncology Service, Hospital Clinico San Carlos, GEICAM, Madrid, Spain.
(7)Euromedica, General Clinic of Thessaloniki, Thessaloniki, Greece.
(8)Hunan Cancer Hospital, Changsha, China.
(9)Dolnoslaskie Centrum Onkologii, Uniwersytet Medyczny we Wroclawiu, Wroclaw, 
Poland.
(10)Dr. Abdurrahman Yurtaslan Ankara Oncology Training and Research Hospital, 
Ankara, Turkey.
(11)Florida Cancer Specialists/Sarah Cannon Research Institute, Fort Myers.
(12)Adelaide Cancer Centre, Kurralta Park, Australia.
(13)Instituto D'Or de Pesquisa e Ensino, São Paulo, Brazil.
(14)National Center for Global Health and Medicine, Tokyo, Japan.
(15)Virginia Cancer Specialists, US Oncology Network, Arlington, Virginia.
(16)Communal Enterprise "Kryvyi Rih oncology dispensary" Dnipr region, Kryvyi 
Rih, Ukraine.
(17)Cancer Center of Kansas, Wichita, Kansas.
(18)Eli Lilly and Company, Indianapolis, Indiana.
(19)Royal Marsden National Health Service Foundation Trust, London, England.

Comment in
    JAMA Oncol. 2022 Nov 1;8(11):1701. doi: 10.1001/jamaoncol.2022.4528.

IMPORTANCE: Patients selected to receive neoadjuvant chemotherapy (NAC) are 
usually those at higher risk of relapse, and there is a need to find better 
therapeutic options for these patients.
OBJECTIVE: To determine the efficacy and safety outcomes for patients with 
hormone receptor (HR)-positive, ERBB2 (formerly HER2)-, high-risk early breast 
cancer enrolled in the randomized clinical trial monarchE who received NAC.
DESIGN, SETTING, AND PARTICIPANTS: The monarchE randomized clinical trial was a 
multicenter, phase 3, open-label study that evaluated adjuvant treatment with 
abemaciclib plus endocrine therapy (ET) compared with ET alone in patients with 
HR+, ERBB2-, and node-positive early breast cancer who were at high risk of 
recurrence. Patients were recruited between July 2017 and August 2019 from 603 
sites in 38 countries. This subgroup analysis was performed with primary outcome 
data, with a cutoff date of July 8, 2020.
INTERVENTION: Enrolled patients were randomized (1:1) to receive standard of 
care ET for at least 5 years with or without treatment with abemaciclib (150 mg, 
twice daily) for 2 years (treatment period) or until criteria were met for 
discontinuation.
MAIN OUTCOMES AND MEASURES: Prior chemotherapy (NAC vs adjuvant vs none) was a 
stratification factor in monarchE, and and a prespecified exploratory analysis 
included outcomes in patients who received NAC. The data presented in this 
article are from the primary outcome analysis (395 invasive disease-free 
survival [IDFS] events; cutoff date, July 8, 2020; median follow-up 19 months 
[IQR, 15.6-23.9 months]). Invasive disease-free survival (the primary end point 
of monarchE) and distant relapse-free survival (DRFS) were evaluated using the 
Cox proportional hazard model and Kaplan-Meier method.
RESULTS: Of the 5637 patients (mean [SD] age, 49.9 [10.6] years; 2046 women 
[99.5%]; 462 Asian [22.8%], 54 Black [2.7%], and 1473 White participants 
[70.8%]) enrolled in monarchE, 2056 (37%) received treatment with NAC. In this 
subgroup, treatment with abemaciclib and ET demonstrated clinically meaningful 
benefit in IDFS (hazard ratio, 0.61; 95% CI, 0.47-0.80) and DRFS (hazard ratio, 
0.61; 95% CI, 0.46-0.81), which corresponded with an absolute improvement of 
6.6% in 2-year IDFS rates and 6.7% in 2-year DRFS rates. A consistent treatment 
benefit was observed across subgroups of pathological breast tumor size or 
number of positive lymph nodes at surgery.
CONCLUSIONS AND RELEVANCE: In the randomized clinical trial monarchE, treatment 
with adjuvant abemaciclib combined with ET demonstrated a clinically meaningful 
improvement in IDFS and DRFS for patients with HR+, ERBB2-, node-positive, 
high-risk early breast cancer who received NAC before trial enrollment.
TRIAL REGISTRATION: ClinicalTrials.gov Identifier: NCT03155997.

DOI: 10.1001/jamaoncol.2022.1488
PMCID: PMC9164117
PMID: 35653145 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Conflict of Interest Disclosures: Drs Wei and 
Munoz-Fernandez and Mses Forrester, Headley, and Zimmermann reported being 
full-time employees of Eli Lilly and Company at the time of the study and 
shareholders of Eli Lilly and Company. Dr Martin reported grants from Roche, 
Novartis, and Puma and personal fees from Novartis, Pfizer, Daiichi Sankyo, Eli 
Lilly and Company, SeaGen, and AstraZeneca outside the submitted work. Dr Kim 
reported grants from Novartis, Sanofi-Aventis, and Dongkook Pharm Co outside the 
submitted work as well as consulting fees from Novartis, AstraZeneca, Lilly, Dae 
Hwa Pharmaceutical Co, ISU Abxis, Daiichi-Sankyo, Beigene, Genopeaks, and 
NeoGene TC. Dr Schenker reported grants from Eli Lilly and Company, BMS, MSD, 
Roche, Novartis, Regeneron, Sanofi, Merck Serono, AstraZeneca, GlaxoSmithKline, 
Amgen, Astellas, AbbVie, Bioven, BeiGene, Bayer, Clovis, Gilead, Mylan, Pfizer, 
PharmaMar, Samsung Pharmaceuticals, and Tesaro outside the submitted work. Dr 
García-Sáenz reported grants from SeaGen, Gilead, Eli Lilly and Company, 
AstraZeneca, and Daiichi Sankyo and personal fees from Novartis, Eisai, and MSD 
outside the submitted work. Dr Papazisis reported honoraria from Novartis, 
Roche, GSK, MSD, AstraZeneca, Gilead, and Eli Lilly and Company outside the 
submitted work. Dr Lacko reported personal fees from Eli Lilly and Company, 
Roche, Pfizer, Egis, Novartis, Mylan, AstraZeneca, MSD, GlaxoSmithKline, 
Alvogen, the European School of Oncology, Exact Sciences, Teva, and Gilead 
outside the submitted work. Dr Reeves reported grants from Eli Lilly and 
Company, the Sarah Cannon Research Institute, Tesaro, TG Therapeutics, 
Genentech, Celgene, Merck, Bristol Myers Squibb, Boston Biomedical, AstraZeneca, 
Novocure, Calithera Biosciences, Novartis, Guardant, Acerta Pharma, Rhizen 
Pharmaceuticals, Takeda, Onconova, Sanofi, CTI Biopharma, Eisai, Janssen, Roche, 
Myriad Genetics, G1 Therapeutics, Daiichi Sankyo, Arvinas, Cytomix, Sermonix, 
SeaGen, Taiho, Boehringer Ingelheim, Hutchinson, Macrogenics, Ipsen, Loxo 
Oncology, Beigene, Acerta, Verastem, Pharmacyclics, AbbVie, Medimmune, Razor 
Oncology, BioAtla, GlaxoSmithKline, Jiangsu Hengrei, Arcus Biosciences, Amgen, 
Mirati, Array, Pfizer, Aravive, Ellipses, Immunogen, Karyopharm, Moderna, 
Thrive, Incyte, Astellas, Ideaya Bio, Appollomics, Tarveda, Ascentage, and 
Clovis outside the submitted work. Dr Testa reported personal fees from Lilly, 
Novartis, MSD, Roche, Amgen, Pfizer, and Daiichi-Sankyo and nonfinancial support 
from United Medical outside the submitted work. Dr Shimizu reported grants from 
Eli Lilly during the conduct of the study. Dr Denduluri reported research 
support from the US Oncology Network and being an employee of AstraZeneca 
outside the submitted work. Dr Johnston reported personal fees from Eli Lilly 
and Company during the conduct of the study and personal fees from Novartis and 
AstraZeneca and grants from Pfizer outside the submitted work. No other 
disclosures were reported.