1. Clin Breast Cancer. 2020 Apr;20(2):174-181.e3. doi:
10.1016/j.clbc.2019.06.016.  Epub 2019 Sep 5.

Incidence and Management of Diarrhea With Adjuvant Pertuzumab and Trastuzumab in 
Patients With Human Epidermal Growth Factor Receptor 2-Positive Breast Cancer.

Bines J(1), Procter M(2), Restuccia E(3), Viale G(4), Zardavas D(5), Suter T(6), 
Arahmani A(7), Van Dooren V(8), Baselga J(9), Clark E(10), Eng-Wong J(11), 
Gelber RD(12), Piccart M(13), Mobus V(14), de Azambuja E(8); APHINITY Steering 
Committee and Investigators.

Author information:
(1)Instituto Nacional de Câncer and Clínica São Vicente, Rio de Janeiro, Brazil. 
Electronic address: jose_bines@yahoo.com.
(2)Frontier Science, Kincraig, United Kingdom.
(3)F. Hoffmann-La Roche Ltd, Basel, Switzerland.
(4)University of Milan and European Institute of Oncology, Scientific Institute 
for Research, Hospitalization, and Healthcare, Milan, Italy.
(5)The Breast International Group, Brussels, Belgium; Bristol-Myers Squibb, 
Princeton, NJ.
(6)Roche Pharma, Bern, Switzerland.
(7)The Breast International Group, Brussels, Belgium.
(8)Breast European Adjuvant Study Team Data Center, Institut Jules Bordet, 
Université Libre de Bruxelles, Brussels, Belgium.
(9)Department of Medicine, Memorial Sloan Kettering Cancer Center, New York, NY.
(10)Roche Products, Welwyn Garden City, United Kingdom.
(11)Genentech, South San Francisco, CA.
(12)Dana-Farber Cancer Institute, Boston, MA; Harvard Medical School, Boston, 
MA; Harvard T.H. Chan School of Public Health, Boston, MA; Frontier Science and 
Technology Research Foundation, Boston, MA.
(13)Institut Jules Bordet, Université Libre de Bruxelles, Brussels, Belgium.
(14)Clinical Center Frankfurt Höchst, Frankfurt, Germany.

BACKGROUND: The APHINITY (BIG 4-11) study showed that pertuzumab significantly 
improved the rates of invasive disease-free survival among patients with human 
epidermal growth factor receptor 2 (HER2)-positive, operable breast cancer when 
added to adjuvant trastuzumab and chemotherapy. Because diarrhea was a common 
adverse event that could compromise treatment administration, we evaluated the 
incidence and management of diarrhea in the APHINITY study.
PATIENTS AND METHODS: The APHINITY trial is a prospective, randomized, 
multicenter, multinational, double-blind, placebo-controlled trial. The eligible 
patients were randomly assigned to receive standard adjuvant chemotherapy and 1 
year of trastuzumab combined with pertuzumab or placebo. The diarrhea incidence, 
severity (National Cancer Institute common terminology criteria for adverse 
events, version 4.0), onset, and management were analyzed.
RESULTS: A total of 4805 patients were randomized. Diarrhea of any grade was the 
most common adverse event and occurred in 71% of patients in the pertuzumab arm 
versus 45% in the placebo arm. Diarrhea grade 3 to 4 was observed in 10% and 4% 
in the pertuzumab and placebo arms, respectively. The greatest incidence of 
diarrhea was reported during the concomitant administration of HER2-targeted 
therapy and taxane (61% vs. 34% of patients experienced an event with pertuzumab 
vs. placebo, respectively). A marked decrease was observed on chemotherapy 
cessation. Antidiarrheal agents were commonly used, and diarrhea rarely caused 
treatment dose modifications or discontinuation.
CONCLUSION: Diarrhea was a common adverse event in the APHINITY study. Most 
episodes were low grade and were generally manageable with common antidiarrheal 
agents. The incidence of diarrhea was greater with the combination of a taxane 
and HER2-targeted treatment and decreased once chemotherapy was stopped.

Copyright © 2019 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.clbc.2019.06.016
PMID: 31924513 [Indexed for MEDLINE]