1. Crit Rev Oncol Hematol. 2007 Apr;62(1):1-8. doi: 
10.1016/j.critrevonc.2006.10.004. Epub 2007 Feb 21.

Selection of chemotherapeutic drugs in adjuvant programs based on molecular 
profiles: where do we stand?

Biganzoli L(1), Claudino WM, Pestrin M, Pozzessere D, Di Leo A.

Author information:
(1)Sandro Pitigliani Medical Oncology Unit, Department of Oncology, Hospital of 
Prato, Piazza dell'Ospedale 2, 59100 Prato, Italy.

Tumors have usually been classified by their morphologic appearances. 
Unfortunately, these current classification schemes have serious drawbacks. They 
are not able to stratify similar histopathological appearances that will follow 
significantly different clinical courses or respond differently to chemotherapy. 
The information that a specific molecular profile correlates with important 
clinical endpoints should permit physicians to take treatment decisions based on 
the molecular characteristics of each tumor. Lessons from the metastatic setting 
have been translated to the adjuvant setting, and several strategies have been 
evaluated in clinical trials. The expression of estrogen receptors (ER) in 
breast cancer enables physicians to make treatment decisions related to the use 
of hormonal manipulations. In this context, the challenge is to define a 
suitable subgroup of patients who will benefit from the addition of 
chemotherapy. Otherwise, the lack of ER expression predicts no benefit from 
hormonotherapy. In this setting chemotherapy plays a central role. The selection 
of the most appropriate regimen based on HER-2 status remains an uncertain 
strategy. However, the expression of the oncoprotein HER-2 has been linked to 
the probability of response to the target-designed monoclonal antibody 
trastuzumab. The role of trastuzumab in the adjuvant setting is supported by the 
early results of three large clinical trials presented at the American Society 
Clinical Oncology meeting in 2005. These trials have shown a striking impact of 
trastuzumab on the main endpoints such as disease-free survival and overall 
survival. In this context, the integration of trastuzumab with taxane and 
anthracycline-based-chemotherapy seems to be the appropriate choice. This review 
will combine data from breast cancer biology with clinical evidence coming from 
large phase III trials in the attempt to propose a molecular targeted approach 
to the adjuvant treatment strategy of early breast cancer patients.

DOI: 10.1016/j.critrevonc.2006.10.004
PMID: 17317203 [Indexed for MEDLINE]