1. Am J Case Rep. 2025 Oct 24;26:e949828. doi: 10.12659/AJCR.949828.

Medical Management of an Infusion Site Extravasation Injury After Peripheral 
Intravenous Infusion of Ado-Trastuzumab Emtansine in a 38-Year-Old Woman with 
Breast Cancer: A Case Report.

Gamvroulas EM(1), Jeppson P(1), Wei M(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Pharmacy, Huntsman Cancer Institute at the University of Utah, 
Salt Lake City, UT, USA.
(2)Division of Oncology, Department of Internal Medicine, Huntsman Cancer 
Institute at the University of Utah, Salt Lake City, UT, USA.

BACKGROUND Ado-trastuzumab emtansine (T-DM1) is indicated for use in both 
early-stage and metastatic breast cancer. This antibody-drug conjugate uses a 
toxic payload, emtansine, which is delivered directly to the malignant cells via 
the covalently linked trastuzumab antibody. Emtansine is a microtubule inhibitor 
and this targeted therapy is used to decrease adverse events. While the package 
insert acknowledges that it is an irritant with infusion site extravasation 
injury as a known adverse event, it does not give clear guidance on 
extravasation treatment. This case report describes the case of a 38-year-old 
woman with breast cancer being treated with T-DM1 who experienced extravasation 
and soft-tissue injury, and the medical management she received. CASE REPORT A 
38-year-old woman with no previous medical history was diagnosed with hormone 
receptor-negative and human epidermal growth receptor 2 breast cancer. After 
refusing port placement, she was treated with T-DM1 via peripheral intravenous 
injection. She experienced infiltration of T-DM1 and developed widespread 
erythema, blistering, and pain. She was treated with a topical steroid 
(clobetasol), topical calcineurin inhibitor (tacrolimus), oral antibiotic 
(cefadroxil), high-dose vitamin D (ergocalciferol), and pain management 
(gabapentin) with almost complete resolution in 4 weeks. CONCLUSIONS This case 
report describes a T-DM1 skin extravasation treated with multimodal medical 
measures as opposed to a more conservative approach. We reaffirm that the use of 
port access when administering T-DM1 is critical to prevent extravasation, and 
we recommend multimodal management, including antibiotics and topical therapies, 
to prevent infection and expedite wound healing if extravasation occurs.

DOI: 10.12659/AJCR.949828
PMCID: PMC12560665
PMID: 41134751 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Conflict of interest: None declared