1. Cancer Treat Rev. 2026 Jun;147:103161. doi: 10.1016/j.ctrv.2026.103161. Epub 
2026 May 27.

The role of the 21-gene assay in the neoadjuvant setting for hormone 
receptor-positive HER2-negative breast cancer: Impact on systemic and surgical 
treatment decisions.

Zotano ÁG(1), Allweis TM(2), Foerster R(3), Palmieri C(4), Gluz O(5), Chia S(6), 
Sotiriou C(7), Bianchini G(8).

Author information:
(1)Medical Oncology Department, Instituto Valenciano de Oncología, Valencia, 
Spain; GEICAM, Spanish Breast Cancer Group, Madrid, Spain. Electronic address: 
angel.guerrero@geicam.org.
(2)Dept. of Breast Surgery, Hadassah Medical Center, Jerusalem, Israel; Faculty 
of Medicine, Hebrew University, Jerusalem, Israel.
(3)Exact Sciences (Abbott Cancer Diagnostics), Baar, Zug, Switzerland.
(4)The Clatterbridge Cancer Centre NHS Foundation Trust, Liverpool, UK; 
University of Liverpool, Liverpool, UK.
(5)West German Study Group (WSG), Moenchengladbach, Germany; Breast Center 
Niederrhein, Ev. Hospital Bethesda, Moenchengladbach, Germany; University 
Clinics Cologne, Women's Clinic and Breast Center, Cologne, Germany.
(6)Medical Oncology, British Columbia Cancer Agency, Vancouver, BC, Canada.
(7)Breast Cancer Translational Research Laboratory, Department of Medical 
Oncology, Institut Jules Bordet, Hôpital Universitaire de Bruxelles (H.U.B), 
Brussels, Belgium; Université Libre de Bruxelles (ULB), Brussels, Belgium.
(8)Medical Oncology Department, IRCCS San Raffaele Hospital, Milan, Italy; 
Vita-Salute San Raffaele University, Milan, Italy.

In breast cancer, one of the main objectives of neoadjuvant treatment, 
regardless of the specific breast cancer subtype, is to downstage the disease in 
both the breast and the lymph nodes, thereby allowing surgical de-escalation. In 
patients with inoperable disease, downstaging could lead to a feasible surgical 
resection; whereas, in patients presenting with operable disease, it could 
increase the eligibility for breast-conserving surgery (i.e., lumpectomy) 
instead of a mastectomy as well as spare some patients an axillary lymph node 
dissection. In patients with hormone receptor-positive (HR + ) human epidermal 
growth factor receptor 2 (HER2)-negative early-stage breast cancer, neoadjuvant 
treatment modalities include chemotherapy (NCT) and endocrine therapy (NET). The 
21-gene Oncotype DX Breast Recurrence Score® assay is a multigene assay that 
determines a Recurrence Score® (RS) result (range, 0-100) based on gene 
expression profile within the primary tumor. The RS is a validated 
prognosticator and predictor of benefit from adjuvant CT. Beyond its validation, 
it has shown clinical utility in 3 prospective randomized clinical trials in the 
adjuvant setting (TAILORx, RxPONDER, and WSG PlanB). In these studies, all 
assays were performed on surgical excision samples. This review focuses on the 
utility of the 21-gene assay in patients with HR + HER2-negative early-stage 
breast cancer in the neoadjuvant setting. It discusses the analytical validation 
of performing the assay on core biopsies, its clinical validation as a tool to 
guide neoadjuvant treatment decisions (primary surgery, NET, or NCT), the 
association of the RS result with clinical outcomes, the impact of the RS 
results on neoadjuvant treatment decisions in real-life clinical practice, the 
inclusion of the assay in the neoadjuvant setting in clinical-practice 
guidelines, access of patients worldwide to this approach, and potential 
directions for additional studies examining the role of the RS in other steps in 
the clinical pathway of HR + HER2-negative early-stage breast cancer.

Copyright © 2026. Published by Elsevier Ltd.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ctrv.2026.103161
PMID: 42218834 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of competing interest The authors 
declare that they have no known competing financial interests or personal 
relationships that could have appeared to influence the work reported in this 
paper.