1. Histopathology. 2015 Sep;67(3):279-93. doi: 10.1111/his.12649. Epub 2015 Mar
8.

Macroscopic handling and reporting of breast cancer specimens pre- and 
post-neoadjuvant chemotherapy treatment: review of pathological issues and 
suggested approaches.

Pinder SE(1), Rakha EA(2), Purdie CA(3), Bartlett JM(4), Francis A(5), Stein 
RC(6), Thompson AM(7), Shaaban AM(8); Translational Subgroup of the NCRI Breast 
Clinical Studies Group.

Author information:
(1)Research Oncology, Division of Cancer Studies, King's College London, Guy's 
Hospital, London, UK.
(2)Division of Cancer and Stem Cells, School of Medicine, University of 
Nottingham, Nottingham, UK.
(3)Department of Pathology, Ninewells Hospital and Medical School, Dundee, UK.
(4)Ontario Institute for Cancer Research, Toronto, ON, Canada.
(5)Queen Elizabeth Hospital Birmingham, Birmingham, UK.
(6)University College London Hospitals and Medical School, London, UK.
(7)Department of Surgical Oncology, University of Texas MD Anderson Cancer 
Center, Houston, TX, USA.
(8)Department of Cellular Pathology, Queen Elizabeth Hospital Birmingham, 
Birmingham, UK.

Neoadjuvant chemotherapy (NACT) is used increasingly in the treatment of 
invasive breast cancer and presents challenges for the pathologist in the 
handling and interpretation of tissues. Potential issues include pathological 
identification and localization of the residual tumour site; how best to assess 
pathological response (given the diversity of scoring systems described); the 
timing and assessment of axillary node biopsy; and the value of retesting any 
residual tumour for dissonance between core biopsy and post-treatment residual 
cancer cells for biomarker expression such as oestrogen and progesterone 
receptors and human epidermal growth factor receptor 2 (HER2). The role of the 
pathologist is critical in modern NACT approaches to breast cancer and is likely 
to remain challenging as novel agents and newer biomarkers become available. In 
this manuscript we review these issues and describe some practical approaches to 
handling and reporting these samples in the routine histopathology laboratory.

© 2015 John Wiley & Sons Ltd.

DOI: 10.1111/his.12649
PMID: 25585651 [Indexed for MEDLINE]