1. J Clin Oncol. 2018 Aug 10;36(23):2433-2443. doi: 10.1200/JCO.2018.78.8604.
Epub  2018 May 22.

Selection of Optimal Adjuvant Chemotherapy and Targeted Therapy for Early Breast 
Cancer: ASCO Clinical Practice Guideline Focused Update.

Denduluri N(1), Chavez-MacGregor M(1), Telli ML(1), Eisen A(1), Graff SL(1), 
Hassett MJ(1), Holloway JN(1), Hurria A(1), King TA(1), Lyman GH(1), Partridge 
AH(1), Somerfield MR(1), Trudeau ME(1), Wolff AC(1), Giordano SH(1).

Author information:
(1)Neelima Denduluri, The US Oncology Network, Virginia Cancer Specialists; 
Jamie N. Holloway, Georgetown Breast Cancer Advocates, Arlington; Mark R. 
Somerfield, American Society of Clinical Oncology, Alexandria, VA; Mariana 
Chavez-MacGregor and Sharon H. Giordano, University of Texas MD Anderson Cancer 
Center, Houston, TX; Melinda L. Telli, Stanford University School of Medicine, 
Stanford; Arti Hurria, City of Hope, Duarte, CA; Andrea Eisen and Maureen E. 
Trudeau, Sunnybrook Odette Cancer Centre; Andrea Eisen and Maureen E. Trudeau, 
Cancer Care Ontario, Toronto, Ontario, Canada; Stephanie L. Graff, Sarah Cannon 
Cancer Institute HCA Midwest Health, Kansas City, MO; Michael J. Hassett, Tari 
A. King, and Ann H. Partridge, Dana-Farber Cancer Institute; Tari A. King, 
Brigham & Women's Cancer Center, Boston, MA; Gary H. Lyman, Fred Hutchinson 
Cancer Research Center, Seattle, WA; Antonio C. Wolff, Johns Hopkins Kimmel 
Cancer Center, Baltimore, MD.

Purpose To update key recommendations of the ASCO guideline adaptation of the 
Cancer Care Ontario guideline on the selection of optimal adjuvant chemotherapy 
regimens for early breast cancer and adjuvant targeted therapy for breast 
cancer. Methods An Expert Panel conducted targeted systematic literature reviews 
guided by a signals approach to identify new, potentially practice-changing data 
that might translate to revised practice recommendations. Results The Expert 
Panel reviewed phase III trials that evaluated adjuvant capecitabine after 
completion of standard preoperative anthracycline- and taxane-based combination 
chemotherapy by patients with early-stage breast cancer HER2-negative breast 
cancer with residual invasive disease at surgery; the addition of 1 year of 
adjuvant pertuzumab to combination chemotherapy and trastuzumab for patients 
with early-stage, HER2-positive breast cancer; and the use of neratinib as 
extended adjuvant therapy for patients after combination chemotherapy and 
trastuzumab-based adjuvant therapy with early-stage, HER2-positive breast 
cancer. Recommendations Patients with early-stage HER2-negative breast cancer 
with pathologic, invasive residual disease at surgery following standard 
anthracycline- and taxane-based preoperative therapy may be offered up to six to 
eight cycles of adjuvant capecitabine. Clinicians may add 1 year of adjuvant 
pertuzumab to trastuzumab-based combination chemotherapy in patients with 
high-risk, early-stage, HER2-positive breast cancer. Clinicians may use extended 
adjuvant therapy with neratinib to follow trastuzumab in patients with 
early-stage, HER2-positive breast cancer. Neratinib causes substantial diarrhea, 
and diarrhea prophylaxis must be used. Additional information can be found at 
www.asco.org/breast-cancer-guidelines .

DOI: 10.1200/JCO.2018.78.8604
PMID: 29787356 [Indexed for MEDLINE]