1. Breast. 2009 Oct;18 Suppl 3:S18-24. doi: 10.1016/S0960-9776(09)70267-X.

Adjuvant chemotherapy--the dark side of clinical trials. Have we learnt more?

Oakman C(1), Pestrin M, Cantisani E, Licitra S, DeStefanis M, Biganzoli L, Di 
Leo A.

Author information:
(1)Sandro Pitigliani Medical Oncology Unit, Department of Oncology, Hospital of 
Prato, Tuscany Cancer Institute, Prato, Italy.

Large adjuvant trials, over many years, have randomised thousands of women with 
early breast cancer to different regimens. They have been instrumental in 
defining our current approach in the adjuvant setting. However in clinical 
practice with each patient, we still have the difficulty of targeting their 
specific therapy, as results relating to the average trial population are often 
not transferable to the individual. This review of adjuvant chemotherapy trials 
focuses on the heterogeneity of disease, treatment, mechanisms of chemotherapy 
action and risk. These issues are of key importance in our interpretation and 
application of results from adjuvant trials. A critical issue in adjuvant 
chemotherapy is identification of patients at high risk of recurrence who have 
chemosensitive tumours. Risk of relapse does not always correlate with 
chemosensitivity, and cytotoxic therapy in patients with chemorefractory disease 
may be ineffective and associated only with toxicity. Rather than general 
sensitivity to cytotoxics, we need predictive biomarkers to guide which specific 
therapy will be effective in a particular patient. Assessment of specific 
biomarkers as predictive tools may individualise care and see chemotherapy 
implementation as targeted agents, with tumour heterogeneity reflected in 
heterogeneity of intervention. Already with trastuzumab, we have a subgroup 
predicted by Her-2 gene amplification. Anthracyclines and taxanes, whilst widely 
used, do not yet have prospectively proven biomarkers to predict response. 
Potential biomarkers for anthracyclines include topoisomerase II alpha and 
markers of DNA repair dysfunction, whilst for taxanes, microtubule-associated 
proteins may play a role. The basal phenotype may be predictive of benefit from 
DNA damaging agents.

DOI: 10.1016/S0960-9776(09)70267-X
PMID: 19914536 [Indexed for MEDLINE]