1. J Clin Oncol. 2016 Jul 1;34(19):2221-31. doi: 10.1200/JCO.2015.64.3171. Epub 
2016 Apr 4.

Absolute Benefit of Adjuvant Endocrine Therapies for Premenopausal Women With 
Hormone Receptor-Positive, Human Epidermal Growth Factor Receptor 2-Negative 
Early Breast Cancer: TEXT and SOFT Trials.

Regan MM(1), Francis PA(2), Pagani O(2), Fleming GF(2), Walley BA(2), Viale 
G(2), Colleoni M(2), Láng I(2), Gómez HL(2), Tondini C(2), Pinotti G(2), Price 
KN(2), Coates AS(2), Goldhirsch A(2), Gelber RD(2).

Author information:
(1)Meredith M. Regan and Richard D. Gelber, Dana-Farber Cancer Institute, 
Harvard Medical School; Karen N. Price and Richard D. Gelber, Frontier Science 
and Technology Research Foundation; Richard D. Gelber, Harvard T.H. Chan School 
of Public Health, Boston, MA; Prudence A. Francis, MacCallum Cancer Center, St 
Vincent's Hospital, University of Melbourne, Melbourne; University of Newcastle, 
Newcastle; Alan S. Coates, University of Sydney, Sydney, Australia; Olivia 
Pagani, Institute of Oncology of Southern Switzerland, Lugano Viganello, 
Switzerland; Gini F. Fleming, University of Chicago Medical Center, Chicago, IL; 
Barbara A. Walley, National Cancer Institute of Canada Clinical Trials Group, 
Calgary, Alberta, Canada; Giuseppe Viale, University of Milan; Giuseppe Viale, 
Marco Colleoni, and Aron Goldhirsch, European Institute of Oncology, Milan; 
Carlo Tondini, Ospedale Papa Giovanni XXIII, Bergamo; Graziella Pinotti, 
Ospedale di Circolo and Fondazione Macchi, Varese, Italy; István Láng, National 
Institute of Oncology, Budapest, Hungary; Henry L. Gómez, Instituto Nacional de 
Enfermedades Neoplásticas, Lima, Peru. mregan@jimmy.harvard.edu.
(2)Meredith M. Regan and Richard D. Gelber, Dana-Farber Cancer Institute, 
Harvard Medical School; Karen N. Price and Richard D. Gelber, Frontier Science 
and Technology Research Foundation; Richard D. Gelber, Harvard T.H. Chan School 
of Public Health, Boston, MA; Prudence A. Francis, MacCallum Cancer Center, St 
Vincent's Hospital, University of Melbourne, Melbourne; University of Newcastle, 
Newcastle; Alan S. Coates, University of Sydney, Sydney, Australia; Olivia 
Pagani, Institute of Oncology of Southern Switzerland, Lugano Viganello, 
Switzerland; Gini F. Fleming, University of Chicago Medical Center, Chicago, IL; 
Barbara A. Walley, National Cancer Institute of Canada Clinical Trials Group, 
Calgary, Alberta, Canada; Giuseppe Viale, University of Milan; Giuseppe Viale, 
Marco Colleoni, and Aron Goldhirsch, European Institute of Oncology, Milan; 
Carlo Tondini, Ospedale Papa Giovanni XXIII, Bergamo; Graziella Pinotti, 
Ospedale di Circolo and Fondazione Macchi, Varese, Italy; István Láng, National 
Institute of Oncology, Budapest, Hungary; Henry L. Gómez, Instituto Nacional de 
Enfermedades Neoplásticas, Lima, Peru.

Comment in
    J Clin Oncol. 2016 Jul 1;34(19):2203-5. doi: 10.1200/JCO.2016.67.0463.
    CA Cancer J Clin. 2016 Sep;66(5):355-6. doi: 10.3322/caac.21308.

PURPOSE: Risk of recurrence is the primary consideration in breast cancer 
adjuvant therapy recommendations. The TEXT (Tamoxifen and Exemestane Trial) and 
SOFT (Suppression of Ovarian Function Trial) trials investigated adjuvant 
endocrine therapies for premenopausal women with hormone receptor-positive 
breast cancer, testing exemestane plus ovarian function suppression (OFS), 
tamoxifen plus OFS, and tamoxifen alone. We examined absolute treatment effect 
across a continuum of recurrence risk to individualize endocrine therapy 
decision making for premenopausal women with human epidermal growth factor 
receptor 2 (HER2) -negative disease.
PATIENTS AND METHODS: The TEXT and SOFT hormone receptor-positive, HER2-negative 
analysis population included 4,891 women. The end point was breast cancer-free 
interval (BCFI), defined as time from random assignment to first occurrence of 
invasive locoregional, distant, or contralateral breast cancer. A continuous, 
composite measure of recurrence risk for each patient was determined from a Cox 
model incorporating age, nodal status, tumor size and grade, and estrogen 
receptor, progesterone receptor, and Ki-67 expression levels. Subpopulation 
treatment effect pattern plot methodology revealed differential treatment 
effects on 5-year BCFI according to composite risk.
RESULTS: SOFT patients who remained premenopausal after chemotherapy experienced 
absolute improvement of 5% or more in 5-year BCFI with exemestane plus OFS 
versus tamoxifen plus OFS or tamoxifen alone, reaching 10% to 15% at 
intermediate to high composite risk; the benefit of tamoxifen plus OFS versus 
tamoxifen alone was apparent at the highest composite risk. The SOFT 
no-chemotherapy cohort-for whom composite risk was lowest on average-did well 
with all endocrine therapies. For TEXT patients, the benefit of exemestane plus 
OFS versus tamoxifen plus OFS in 5-year BCFI ranged from 5% to 15%; patients not 
receiving chemotherapy and with lowest composite risk did well with both 
treatments.
CONCLUSION: Premenopausal women with hormone receptor-positive, HER2-negative 
disease and high recurrence risk, as defined by clinicopathologic 
characteristics, may experience improvement of 10% to 15% in 5-year BCFI with 
exemestane plus OFS versus tamoxifen alone. An improvement of at least 5% may be 
achieved for women at intermediate risk, and improvement is minimal for those at 
lowest risk.

© 2016 by American Society of Clinical Oncology.

DOI: 10.1200/JCO.2015.64.3171
PMCID: PMC4962708
PMID: 27044936 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Authors’ disclosures of potential conflicts of 
interest are found in the article online at www.jco.org. Author contributions 
are found at the end of this article.