1. Medicine (Baltimore). 2025 Aug 15;104(33):e43387. doi: 
10.1097/MD.0000000000043387.

A case report of Chinese medicine combined with neoadjuvant chemotherapy in the 
treatment of human epidermal growth factor receptor 2 breast cancer.

Li S(1), Zhang S(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Gastrointestinal and Breast Surgery, Guizhou University of 
Traditional Chinese Medicine, Guiyang, Guizhou Province, China.
(2)Department of Gastrointestinal and Breast Surgery, Guizhou University of 
Traditional Chinese Medicine, The First Affiliated Hospital of Guizhou 
University of Traditional Chinese Medicine of China, Guiyang, Guizhou Province, 
China.

RATIONALE: According to Chinese medicine, surgical trauma and chemotherapy 
aggravate patients' qi and blood deficiency and damage to the veins and 
channels. The combination of Chinese medicine and neoadjuvant chemotherapy 
(NACT) can not only improve the above symptoms, but also is expected to 
alleviate the adverse effects of breast cancer chemotherapy, such as nausea and 
vomiting, thereby improving patient compliance to achieve tumor reduction or 
even tumor-free, and providing a new diagnostic and therapeutic idea for the 
clinical treatment of breast cancer. This paper reported a case of human 
epidermal growth factor receptor 2 (HER-2) invasive breast cancer treated with 
traditional Chinese medicine combined with NACT. The lesion disappeared after 2 
months of treatment and effectively reduced nausea and the symptoms of loss of 
appetite during NACT.
PATIENT CONCERNS: The patient was a female, 54-year-old, unintentionally found a 
double breast lump with tingling pain over 1 year. During this period, the 
patient did not pay attention to any treatment, the mass increased 
progressively, hard texture, unclear boundary. Denied family genetic history of 
breast cancer. The patient was diagnosed with invasive ductal carcinoma of both 
breasts (multiple metastases in right axillary and supraclavicular lymph nodes), 
T4N3M0 (tumour staging basis), stage IIC, HER-2 positive by breast needle 
biopsy. In the course of NACT, the patient complained of severe nausea and 
vomiting, which seriously affected the quality of life and chemotherapy 
confidence.
DIAGNOSES: The patient was diagnosed with invasive ductal carcinoma of both 
breasts (multiple metastases in right axillary and supraclavicular lymph nodes), 
T4N3M0, stage IIC, HER-2 positive.
INTERVENTIONS: The patient was treated with NACT, and traditional Chinese 
medicine was taken orally.
OUTCOMES: After 2 months of combination therapy, the breast mass shrank, the 
symptoms of nausea and vomiting were significantly relieved, and the appetite 
became better. The biopsy of the breast tissue cut at the completion of NACT 
showed no upper, lower, internal, outer, and basal lesions.
LESSONS: Chinese medicine internal effect is remarkable and safe, new adjuvant 
chemotherapy combined with Chinese medicine internal effectively improve nausea, 
vomiting symptoms, and effectively inhibit tumor hyperplasia, shrink tumor 
lesions, this case allows us consider whether in breast cancer new adjuvant 
chemotherapy combined Chinese medicine internal effect can be better, and 
provide new ideas for clinical treatment.

Copyright © 2025 the Author(s). Published by Wolters Kluwer Health, Inc.

DOI: 10.1097/MD.0000000000043387
PMCID: PMC12366986
PMID: 40826794 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors have no conflicts of interest to 
disclose.