1. Breast Cancer Res. 2014 Mar 5;16(2):209. doi: 10.1186/bcr3621.

Trastuzumab emtansine: mechanisms of action and drug resistance.

Barok M, Joensuu H, Isola J.

Trastuzumab emtansine (T-DM1) is an antibody-drug conjugate that is effective 
and generally well tolerated when administered as a single agent to treat 
advanced breast cancer. Efficacy has now been demonstrated in randomized trials 
as first line, second line, and later than the second line treatment of advanced 
breast cancer. T-DM1 is currently being evaluated as adjuvant treatment for 
early breast cancer. It has several mechanisms of action consisting of the 
anti-tumor effects of trastuzumab and those of DM1, a cytotoxic anti-microtubule 
agent released within thetarget cells upon degradation of the human epidermal 
growth factor receptor-2 (HER2)-T-DM1 complex in lysosomes. The cytotoxic effect 
of T-DM1 likely varies depending on the intracellular concentration of DM1 
accumulated in cancer cells, high intracellular levels resulting in rapid 
apoptosis, somewhat lower levels in impaired cellular trafficking and mitotic 
catastrophe, while the lowest levels lead to poor response to T-DM1. Primary 
resistance of HER2-positive metastatic breast cancer to T-DM1 appears to be 
relatively infrequent, but most patients treated with T-DM1 develop acquired 
drug resistance. The mechanisms of resistance are incompletely understood, but 
mechanisms limiting the binding of trastuzumab to cancer cells may be involved. 
The cytotoxic effect of T-DM1 may be impaired by inefficient internalization or 
enhanced recycling of the HER2-T-DM1 complex in cancer cells, or impaired 
lysosomal degradation of trastuzumab or intracellular trafficking of HER2. The 
effect ofT-DM1 may also be compromised by multidrug resistance proteins that 
pump DM1 out of cancer cells. In this review we discuss the mechanism of action 
of T-DM1 and the key clinical results obtained with it, the combinations ofT-DM1 
with other cytotoxic agents and anti-HER drugs, and the potential resistance 
mechanisms and the strategies to overcome resistance to T-DM1.

DOI: 10.1186/bcr3621
PMCID: PMC4058749
PMID: 24887180 [Indexed for MEDLINE]