1. Eur J Cancer. 2024 Aug;207:114192. doi: 10.1016/j.ejca.2024.114192. Epub 2024 
Jun 28.

CDK4/6 inhibitors as adjuvant therapy in early breast cancer? Uncertain 
benefits, guaranteed harms.

Haslam A(1), Ranganathan S(2), Prasad V(1), Olivier T(3).

Author information:
(1)Department of Epidemiology and Biostatistics, University of California San 
Francisco, 550 16th St, 2nd Fl, San Francisco, CA 94158, USA.
(2)Department of Medicine, University of Cambridge, Cambridge, United Kingdom.
(3)Department of Oncology, Geneva University Hospital, 4 Gabrielle-Perret-Gentil 
Street, 1205 Geneva, Switzerland. Electronic address: timothee.olivier@hug.ch.

CDK4/6 inhibitors are oral agents inhibiting key molecules of the cell cycle 
regulation. In patients with endocrine receptor positive (ER+), human epidermal 
growth factor receptor 2 negative (HER2-) breast cancer, the combination of 
CDK4/6 inhibitors with endocrine therapy is an effective treatment in the 
metastatic setting. Now, two studies in the adjuvant setting - MonarchE (2 years 
of abemaciclib) and NATALEE (3 years of ribociclib) - report positive invasive 
disease-free survival. Here, we re-evaluate these seminal trials. First, an 
excess drop-out or loss-to-follow up occurred early in the control arms of both 
studies. Since both trials are open-label, there is concern that the patients 
who drop-out do not do so at random but based on socioeconomic factors and 
alternative options. Is it possible that the results merely appear favorable due 
to loss to follow up? Based on re-constructed Kaplan-Meier curves, we concluded 
the results of these studies remain fragile, being prone to informative 
censoring. Secondly, adverse events were notably higher in both trials, and some 
of them, like COVID-19 related deaths in NATALEE, raise serious concerns. Third, 
the potential costs associated with CDK4/6 inhibition given as adjuvant therapy 
are unprecedented. The NATALEE strategy, in particular, could affect up to 35 % 
of patients with newly diagnosed breast cancer, which is the cancer with the 
highest incidence worldwide. Without confirmatory data based on a 
placebo-controlled trial, or better identification of patients that would 
benefit from the addition of CDK4/6 inhibitors in the adjuvant setting, we argue 
against their routine use as adjuvant therapy in ER+ /HER2- early breast cancer.

Copyright © 2024 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Ltd.. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ejca.2024.114192
PMID: 38959677 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of Competing Interest Dr Vinay 
Prasad reported receiving research funding from Arnold Ventures LLC through a 
grant made to UCSF; royalties for books and writing from Johns Hopkins Press, 
MedPage, and the Free Press; and consulting fees from UnitedHealthcare and 
OptumRX. He also reported receiving revenue from Patreon, YouTube, and Substack 
for the podcasts Plenary Session, VPZD, and Sensible Medicine; for the 
newsletters Sensible Medicine, The Drug Development Letter, and VP’s 
Observations and Thoughts; and for the YouTube channel Vinay Prasad MD MPH. All 
other authors have no conflicts of interest to declare.