1. ESMO Open. 2021 Apr;6(2):100099. doi: 10.1016/j.esmoop.2021.100099. Epub 2021 
Apr 2.

T-DM1 versus pertuzumab, trastuzumab and a taxane as first-line therapy of 
early-relapsed HER2-positive metastatic breast cancer: an Italian multicenter 
observational study.

Schettini F(1), Conte B(2), Buono G(3), De Placido P(4), Parola S(4), Griguolo 
G(5), Fabi A(6), Bighin C(7), Riccardi F(8), Cianniello D(9), De Laurentiis 
M(9), Puglisi F(10), Pelizzari G(11), Bonotto M(12), Russo S(12), Frassoldati 
A(13), Pazzola A(14), Montemurro F(15), Lambertini M(16), Guarneri V(5), 
Cognetti F(17), Locci M(18), Generali D(19), Conte P(5), De Placido S(4), 
Giuliano M(4), Arpino G(4), Del Mastro L(20).

Author information:
(1)Department of Clinical Medicine and Surgery, University of Naples 'Federico 
II', Naples, Italy; Translational Genomics and Targeted Therapies in Solid 
Tumors Group, August Pi i Sunyer Biomedical Research Institute (IDIBAPS), 
Barcelona, Spain; SOLTI Breast Cancer Research Group, Barcelona, Spain. 
Electronic address: schettini@clinic.cat.
(2)SOLTI Breast Cancer Research Group, Barcelona, Spain; Medical Oncology Unit 
2, IRCCS Ospedale Policlinico San Martino, Genoa, Italy.
(3)Oncology Unit, San Rocco Hospital, Sessa Aurunca, Italy.
(4)Department of Clinical Medicine and Surgery, University of Naples 'Federico 
II', Naples, Italy.
(5)Division of Oncology 2, Istituto Oncologico Veneto IRCCS, Padua, Italy; 
Department of Surgery, Oncology and Gastroenterology, University of Padova, 
Padua, Italy.
(6)Division of Medical Oncology 1, IRCCS Regina Elena National Cancer Institute, 
Rome, Italy.
(7)Medical Oncology Unit 2, IRCCS Ospedale Policlinico San Martino, Genoa, 
Italy.
(8)Medical Oncology, 'A. Cardarelli' Hospital, Naples, Italy.
(9)National Cancer Institute Fondazione 'G. Pascale', Naples, Italy.
(10)Department of Medicine (DAME), University of Udine, Udine, Italy; Department 
of Clinical Oncology, CRO Aviano National Cancer Institute, Aviano, Italy.
(11)Department of Clinical Oncology, CRO Aviano National Cancer Institute, 
Aviano, Italy.
(12)Department of Oncology, ASUFC University Hospital, Udine, Italy.
(13)Oncology Unit, University Hospital St. Anna, Ferrara, Italy.
(14)Division of Medical Oncology, AOU Sassari, Sassari, Italy.
(15)Depertment of Medical Oncology, Candiolo Cancer Institute, Candiolo, Italy.
(16)Department of Internal Medicine and Medical Specialties (DiMI), School of 
Medicine, University of Genova, Genoa, Italy; Department of Medical Oncology, 
U.O.C. Clinica di Oncologia Medica, IRCCS Ospedale Policlinico San Martino, 
Genoa, Italy.
(17)Department of Clinic and Molecular Medicine, 'La Sapienza' University of 
Rome, Rome, Italy.
(18)Department of Neuroscience, Reproductive Medicine, Odontostomatology, 
University of Naples 'Federico II', Naples, Italy.
(19)Breast Cancer Unit, Azienda Socio Sanitaria Territoriale di Cremona, 
Cremona, Italy; Department of Medical, Surgery and Health Sciences, University 
of Trieste, Trieste, Italy.
(20)Department of Internal Medicine and Medical Specialties (DiMI), School of 
Medicine, University of Genova, Genoa, Italy; U.O.S.D. Breast Unit, IRCCS 
Ospedale Policlinico San Martino, Genoa, Italy.

BACKGROUND: The current standard first-line treatment of human epidermal growth 
factor receptor 2 (HER2)-positive (+) metastatic breast cancer is the 
combination of pertuzumab, trastuzumab and a taxane (P + T + taxane), while 
standard second-line is ado-trastuzumab-emtansine (T-DM1). The registration 
trial of pertuzumab, however, did not include early-relapsing patients, defined 
as patients experiencing tumor relapse ≤12 months from the end of (neo)adjuvant 
anti-HER2 therapy. Conversely, the pivotal trial of T-DM1 included some patients 
relapsing ≤6 months after the end of (neo)adjuvant trastuzumab. Thus, a 
proportion of early-relapsing patients are currently eligible to receive T-DM1 
as first-line treatment. Nevertheless, no direct comparison exists between the 
two regimens in this clinical setting.
PATIENTS AND METHODS: We retrospectively compared T-DM1 versus P + T + taxane as 
first-line treatment in two cohorts of early-relapsing patients in an Italian 
'real-world' setting, involving 14 public health care institutions. The primary 
endpoint was progression-free survival. Secondary endpoints included patients' 
characterization, overall survival and post-progression survival. Univariate and 
multivariate analyses were carried out. All tests were two-sided and a P ≤ 0.05 
was considered statistically significant.
RESULTS: Among 1252 screened patients, 75 met the inclusion criteria. Forty-four 
(58.7%) received P + T + taxane and 31 (41.3%) received T-DM1. The two cohorts 
showed similar characteristics of aggressiveness and no significant differences 
in treatment history. T-DM1, compared with P + T + taxane was associated with 
worse progression-free survival (adjusted hazard ratio: 2.26, 95% confidence 
interval: 1.13-4.52, P = 0.021) and overall survival (adjusted hazard ratio: 
3.95, 95% confidence interval: 1.38-11.32, P = 0.010), irrespective of previous 
(neo)adjuvant treatment, age, hormone receptors status, time-to-relapse (≤6 
months or within 6-12 months) and presence of visceral/brain metastases. No 
differences were observed in post-progression survival (P = 0.095).
CONCLUSIONS: Our study suggests superiority for P + T + taxane over T-DM1 as 
up-front treatment of early-relapsing HER2+ metastatic breast cancer, which 
merits further assessment in larger and prospective trials.

Copyright © 2021 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Ltd.. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.esmoop.2021.100099
PMCID: PMC8047485
PMID: 33819752 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Disclosure MG, GA and SDP have declared 
honoraria from Roche, Pfizer, Astra-Zeneca, Novartis, Celgene, Eli Lilly, Amgen 
and Eisai outside the submitted work. ML acted as consultant for Roche, 
AstraZenenca, Novartis, and received speaker honoraria from Roche, Takeda, 
Novartis, Lilly, Pfizer, Sandoz outside the submitted work. LDM has declared 
honoraria from Roche, Pfizer, Ipsen, Eli Lilly, Eisai, Novartis, Takeda and 
Merck Sharp & Dohme (MSD), consulting/advisory role for Roche and Eli Lilly, 
travels, accommodations and expenses from Roche, Pfizer and Celgene outside the 
submitted work. MDL has declared consulting fees from Pfizer, Novartis, Eli 
Lilly, Roche, Eisai, Celgene. FP has declared honoraria for advisory boards, 
activities as a speaker, travel grants, research grants from Amgen, AstraZeneca, 
Celgene, Eisai, Eli Lilly, Ipsen, MSD, Novartis, Pierre-Fabre, Pfizer, Roche and 
Takeda, and research funding from AstraZeneca, Eisai, Roche and Italian Ministry 
of Health outside the submitted work. PFC reports grants from Merck KGaA, Roche 
and Bristol-Myers Squibb; grants and personal fees from Novartis and EliLilly; 
personal fees from AstraZeneca, outside the submitted work. VG reports personal 
fees from Novartis, Roche, EliLilly, MSD, outside the submitted work. DG has 
declared consulting fees from Novartis, Lilly and Pfizer, research funding from 
LILT, Novartis, AstraZeneca and University of Trieste outside the submitted 
work. GB received honoraria for speaker activities and travel grants from 
GlaxoSmithKline, Novartis, Pfizer, Roche, Genetic Spa, outside the submitted 
work. FM declared advisory role for Roche, Novartis, AstraZeneca, Pfizer, Eli 
Lilly, Pierre Fabre, Daiichi Sankyo, travel grants from Roche and financial 
support from the Fondazione Piemontese per la Ricerca sul Cancro (FPRC) Onlus 5 
x mille funding from the Italian Ministry of Health 2017 outside the submitted 
work. AF has declared honoraria for advisory board from Roche and Novartis, 
activity as speaker for Pfizer and Lilly, travel grant from Roche, Novartis, 
Pfizer, Lilly and AstraZeneca outside the submitted work. The other authors have 
nothing to declare. Data sharing The anonymized database is available from the 
corresponding author upon reasonable request. The R codes used are available 
from the corresponding author upon reasonable request.