1. Future Oncol. 2022 Aug;18(25):2817-2825. doi: 10.2217/fon-2022-0326. Epub 2022
 Jun 22.

Potential value of tumor stiffness and sE-cadherin in predicting the response to 
neoadjuvant therapy in HER2-positive breast cancers.

Zhou W(1), Wu M(1), Lin H(1), Chen W(1), Lu G(2), Yang F(2), Chen Y(3), Chen 
G(4).

Author information:
(1)Department of Ultrasound, The Affiliated People's Hospital of Ningbo 
University, Ningbo, Zhejiang Province, China.
(2)Department of Breast & Thyroid Surgery, The Affiliated People's Hospital of 
Ningbo University, Ningbo, Zhejiang Province, China.
(3)Department of Ultrasound, Fudan University Shanghai Cancer Center, Shanghai, 
China.
(4)Department of Pathology, The Affiliated People's Hospital of Ningbo 
University, Ningbo, Zhejiang Province, China.

Background: This prospective study compared the diagnostic value of tumor 
stiffness and serum soluble E-cadherin (sE-cadherin) expression for predicting 
response to neoadjuvant therapy in HER2-positive breast cancers. Methods: 112 
patients with early or locally advanced HER2-positive breast cancer were 
enrolled. Maximum stiffness (Emax), mean stiffness (Emean) and their relative 
changes were assessed at t0 and t2. sE-cadherin levels were analyzed using 
ELISA. Pathological complete response was defined as no invasive disease in the 
breast and axilla (ypT0/is, ypN0) after surgery. The ability of tumor stiffness, 
sE-cadherin and the combination of ΔEmean (the relative change in Emean after 
the second cycle of neoadjuvant therapy) and sE-cadherin in predicting tumor 
responses was assessed using receiver operating characteristic curves and the 
Z-test. Results: Tumor stiffness and sE-cadherin decreased during neoadjuvant 
therapy. ΔEmean and sE-cadherin revealed the best predictive performance, with 
areas under the curve (AUCs) of 0.843 and 0.857, respectively. No significant 
differences in AUCs were reported between ΔEmean and sE-cadherin (p = 0.795). 
The combined use of ΔEmean and sE-cadherin showed the highest sensitivity and 
specificity (93.22 and 90.57%, respectively), with an AUC of 0.937. Conclusion: 
The combination of ΔEmean and sE-cadherin may improve the predictive power of 
each single factor. Although further verification is required, this study may 
promote noninvasive prediction of neoadjuvant therapy responses and help 
personalize the treatment regimen.

Plain Language Summary: HER2 positivity in breast cancer is associated with a 
poor prognosis and shortened overall survival. For patients with HER2-positive 
early breast cancer, the standard neoadjuvant treatment consists of trastuzumab 
and pertuzumab plus docetaxel, and produces high response rates. In spite of the 
success of neoadjuvant therapy, some patients show no response due to drug 
resistance. An accurate prediction of the response of early HER2-positive breast 
cancer to neoadjuvant therapy would allow the modification of treatment with a 
response-guided strategy, thereby improving overall survival. Shear wave 
elastography and serum soluble E-cadherin may provide useful data on 
responsiveness to neoadjuvant therapy in breast cancers. This study was 
conducted to compare the diagnostic value of tumor stiffness and soluble 
E-cadherin expression for predicting the response to neoadjuvant therapy in 
HER2-positive breast cancers. Although these results will require further 
verification with larger studies, this study may promote noninvasive prediction 
of neoadjuvant therapy responses and help personalize the treatment regimen.

DOI: 10.2217/fon-2022-0326
PMID: 35730465 [Indexed for MEDLINE]