1. Cancers (Basel). 2022 Oct 15;14(20):5051. doi: 10.3390/cancers14205051.

Event-Free Survival in Patients with Early HER2-Positive Breast Cancer with a 
Pathological Complete Response after HER2-Targeted Therapy: A Pooled Analysis.

Swain SM(1), Macharia H(2), Cortes J(3)(4), Dang C(5), Gianni L(6), Hurvitz 
SA(7), Jackisch C(8), Schneeweiss A(9), Slamon D(7), Valagussa P(6), du Toit 
Y(10), Heinzmann D(2), Knott A(2), Song C(10), Cortazar P(10).

Author information:
(1)Lombardi Comprehensive Cancer Center, Georgetown University Medical Center, 
MedStar Health, Washington, DC 20057, USA.
(2)F. Hoffmann-La Roche Ltd., 4070 Basel, Switzerland.
(3)Quirónsalud Group, IOB Institute of Oncology, Madrid and Barcelona, 08023 
Barcelona, Spain.
(4)Vall d'Hebron Institute of Oncology (VHIO), 08023 Barcelona, Spain.
(5)Department of Medicine, Breast Medicine Service, Memorial Sloan Kettering 
Cancer Center, New York, NY 10013, USA.
(6)Fondazione Michelangelo, 20121 Milano, Italy.
(7)David Geffen School of Medicine, University of California Los Angeles, Los 
Angeles, CA 94720, USA.
(8)Sana Klinikum Offenbach, 63069 Offenbach, Germany.
(9)National Center for Tumor Diseases (NCT), 69120 Heidelberg, Germany.
(10)Genentech, Inc., South San Francisco, CA 94080, USA.

The standard-of-care for patients with pathological complete response (pCR) 
after neoadjuvant human epidermal growth factor receptor 2 (HER2)-targeted 
therapy plus chemotherapy is continuation of HER2-targeted therapy in the 
adjuvant setting. Our objective was to evaluate risk of recurrence or death in 
these patients and determine if outcomes differed by the HER2-targeted regimen 
received in each setting. We analyzed patient-level data from five randomized 
trials evaluating trastuzumab, pertuzumab, or both as part of systemic 
neoadjuvant and adjuvant therapy for HER2-positive early breast cancer, and 
assessed event-free survival (EFS) in 1763 patients. Patients with pCR had 
decreased risk of an EFS event versus those with residual disease (unadjusted 
hazard ratio [HR] = 0.35; 95% confidence interval [CI]: 0.27-0.46). Regardless 
of pCR status, after adjusting for baseline factors, reduction in EFS event risk 
was greater in patients administered pertuzumab/trastuzumab in both settings 
versus those administered only trastuzumab in both settings (HR = 0.36; 95% CI: 
0.26-0.49), or pertuzumab/trastuzumab in the neoadjuvant setting and only 
trastuzumab in the adjuvant setting (HR = 0.67; 95% CI: 0.47-0.96). Patients 
with pCR had longer EFS than those with residual disease. Patients treated with 
pertuzumab/trastuzumab in both the neoadjuvant and adjuvant settings had the 
lowest risk of breast cancer recurrence.

DOI: 10.3390/cancers14205051
PMCID: PMC9599862
PMID: 36291835

Conflict of interest statement: S.M. Swain has been an advisory board member 
and/or consultant for AstraZeneca, Athenex, Beijing Medical Foundation, Daiichi 
Sankyo, Exact Sciences, Genentech/Roche, Inviata, Lilly Pharmaceuticals, Merck, 
Molecular Templates, Natera, and Silverback Therapeutics; has received research 
funding to her institution from Genentech and Kailos Institution; has received 
travel or accommodations expenses paid by Caris Life Sciences, Daiichi Sankyo 
and Genentech/Roche; and reports other relationships with AstraZeneca and Roche. 
J. Cortes has been an advisory board member and/or consultant for Roche, 
Celgene, Cellestia, AstraZeneca, Biothera Pharmaceutical, Merus, Seattle 
Genetics, Daiichi Sankyo, Erytech, Athenex, Polyphor, Lilly, Servier, and Merck 
Sharpe&Dohme; has received honoraria from Roche, Novartis, Celgene, Eisai, 
Pfizer, Samsung, Lilly, Merck Sharpe&Dohme; has received research funding to his 
institution from Roche, Ariad Pharmaceuticals, AstraZeneca, Baxalta GMBH/Servier 
Affairs, Bayer Healthcare, Eisai, Guardant Health, Merck Sharpe&Dohme, Pfizer, 
Piqur Therapeutics, Puma, Queen Mary University of London, and Seagen; and has 
MedSIR stock, patents, or intellectual property. C. Dang has received honoraria 
as a consultant for Roche/Genentech, Puma, Daiichi Sankyo, Lilly, Evivore, 
Novartis, and Pfizer, and has received grant/research support from Roche 
Genentech, and Puma. L. Gianni has been an advisory board member and/or 
consultant for ADC Therapeutics, AstraZeneca, Celgene, Eli Lilly, G1 
Therapeutics, Genentech, Genomic Health, Merck Sharp & Dohme, Oncolytics 
Biotech, Odonate Therapeutics, Onkaido Therapeutics, Roche, Pfizer, Taiho 
Pharmaceutical, Hexal Sandoz, Seattle Genetics, Synthon, Zymeworks, 
Sanofi-Aventis, Forty Seven (CD47), GENENTA, METIS Precision Medicine, Synaffix, 
Menarini Ricerche, Amgen, and Biomedical Insights Inc., and a Research Grant 
from Revolution Medicines was granted to his institution outside the submitted 
work. S.A. Hurvitz has an immediate family member with stock or other ownership 
interests in Ideal Implant and ROMTech; her institution has received research 
funding from Genentech/Roche, Novartis, GlaxoSmithKline, Sanofi, Pfizer, Amgen, 
OBI Pharma, Puma Biotechnology, Dignitana, Bayer, BioMarin, Lilly, Merrimack, 
Cascadian Therapeutics, Seattle Genetics, Daiichi Sankyo, Macrogenetics, Ambryx, 
Immunomedics, Pieris, Radius, Arvinas, Zymeworks, Gilead Sciences, Phoenix 
Molecular Designs, CytomX Therapeutics, and Samumed; she has had travel or 
accommodations expenses paid by Lilly; and reports other relationships with 
Roche and Pfizer. C. Jackisch has received honoraria from AstraZeneca, Pfizer, 
Roche, Lilly, Exact Science, Pierre Fabré, and Amgen. A. Schneeweiss has 
provided expert testimony for Roche and AstraZeneca; his institution has 
received research grants from Celgene, Roche, and Abbvie; he has had travel or 
accommodations expenses paid by Celgene, Roche, and Pfizer; has received 
honoraria from Roche, Celgene, Pfizer, AstraZeneca, Novartis, MSD, Tesaro, 
Lilly, and Seagen; and has received non-financial medical writing support from 
Roche. D. Slamon has been a consultant for Lilly, Novartis, Pfizer and Seagen; 
has BioMarin corporate board membership; has equity ownership in Amgen, 
BioMarin, Merck Sharpe&Dohme, Pfizer, Seagen, Vertex, TORL BioTherapeutics, and 
1200 Pharma; has received honoraria from Novartis; reports research 
funding/grants from Novartis, Pfizer, and Seagen; has been on a speaker’s bureau 
for Novartis; and he has had travel or accommodations expenses paid by Novartis 
and Pfizer. P. Valagussa has no conflicts of interest to declare. H. Macharia, 
D. Heinzmann, and A. Knott, are employees of and own stock in F. Hoffmann-La 
Roche, Ltd. Y. du Toit, C. Song, and P. Cortazar are employees of Genentech and 
own stock in F. Hoffmann-La Roche, Ltd.