1. Am Soc Clin Oncol Educ Book. 2018 May 23;38:47-55. doi: 10.1200/EDBK_200719.

Using a Neoadjuvant Approach for Evaluating Novel Therapies for Patients With 
Breast Cancer.

Denduluri N(1), Miller K(1), O'Regan RM(1).

Author information:
(1)From the Virginia Cancer Specialists, Fairfax, VA; Indiana University Melvin 
and Bren Simon Cancer Center, Indianapolis, IN; University of Wisconsin Carbone 
Cancer Center, Madison, WI.

Preoperative systemic therapy, though primarily used to downstage breast 
cancers, can offer, using pathologic complete response (pCR) as an endpoint, a 
rapid assessment of efficacy of a given therapeutic approach, particularly in 
triple-negative (TNBC) and HER2-positive breast cancers. Recently, this approach 
resulted in the approval of pertuzumab for HER2-positive cancers, in a 
considerably quicker timeline than would have been possible with its assessment 
in the adjuvant setting. However, the use of preoperative systemic therapy 
remains controversial, as the higher response rates noted with newer approaches 
have not routinely translated into improved longer-term outcomes, nor have they 
been confirmed in larger adjuvant trials. Almost all trials have demonstrated 
that pCR is a robust prognostic marker in patients with TNBC and HER2-positive 
cancers, so part of this discrepancy may be due to inadequate power in the 
preoperative trials and/or due to the heterogeneous nature of breast cancers. 
PCR following preoperative chemotherapy is not prognostic in many hormone 
receptor (HR)-positive breast cancers, especially those with a luminal A 
phenotype, which typically has minimal response to chemotherapy. Given this lack 
of response to chemotherapy, there is considerable interest in the use of 
neoadjuvant endocrine therapy (NET). The rate of pCR to NET in HR-positive 
cancers is low, leading to the use of surrogate markers, including changes in 
Ki-67 and the preoperative endocrine prognostic index (PEPI) score, as 
biomarkers of efficacy. Overall, the use of neoadjuvant approaches offers a 
rapid assessment of efficacy of novel therapies and remains a useful research 
tool for drug evaluation.

DOI: 10.1200/EDBK_200719
PMID: 30231324 [Indexed for MEDLINE]