1. Anticancer Res. 2020 Jan;40(1):281-286. doi: 10.21873/anticanres.13950.

Evaluation of Concordance Between Histopathological, Radiological and 
Biomolecular Variables in Breast Cancer Neoadjuvant Treatment.

Buonomo OC(1), Grasso A(2), Pistolese CA(3), Anemona L(4), Portarena I(5), 
Meucci R(3), Morando L(1), Deiana C(1), Materazzo M(1), Vanni G(1).

Author information:
(1)Breast Unit-Department of Surgical Science, Policlinico Tor Vergata (PTV) 
University, Rome, Italy.
(2)Breast Unit-Department of Surgical Science, Policlinico Tor Vergata (PTV) 
University, Rome, Italy andry993@tiscali.it.
(3)Department of Diagnostic Imaging and Interventional Radiology, Molecular 
Imaging and Radiotherapy, Policlinico Tor Vergata (PTV) University, Rome, Italy.
(4)Anatomic Pathology, Department of Experimental Medicine, Policlinico Tor 
Vergata (PTV) University, Rome, Italy.
(5)Department of Oncology, Policlinico Tor Vergata (PTV) University, Rome, 
Italy.

BACKGROUND/AIM: Neoadjuvant chemotherapy (NAC) for breast cancer (BC) is the 
gold standard treatment for locally advanced tumors (LABC) that aims at 
achieving a complete pathological response (pCR). Studies have been conducted to 
evaluate and identify te concordance between radiological, histopathological and 
biological variables of BC and final response to therapy, verified by definitive 
histological examination after surgery.
PATIENTS AND METHODS: Ninety-five BC patients were examined and subjected to 
NAC. Immunohistochemical markers including oestrogen-receptor (ER), 
progesterone-receptor (PR), Ki67 index, and human epidermal growth factor 
receptor 2 (HER2) score were examined before and after neoadjuvant treatment.
RESULTS: Younger age and a significant decrease in ER expression were associated 
with better prognosis. Triple Negative (TN) and Her2-type breast cancers 
benefited most from neoadjuvant chemotherapy with higher frequency of pCR.
CONCLUSION: HER2-type and TN BC are correlated with best response to NAC. A 
statistically significant correlation between radiological images and definitive 
histological examination was not observed.

Copyright© 2020, International Institute of Anticancer Research (Dr. George J. 
Delinasios), All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.21873/anticanres.13950
PMID: 31892577 [Indexed for MEDLINE]