1. Am Soc Clin Oncol Educ Book. 2013:73-9. doi: 10.14694/EdBook_AM.2013.33.73.

Drug development: neoadjuvant opportunities in breast cancer.

Rastogi P(1), Geyer CE, Mamounas EP, DeMichele A.

Author information:
(1)From the University of Pittsburgh Cancer Institute, Pittsburgh, PA; 
University of Texas Southwestern Medical Center, Dallas, TX; MD Anderson Cancer 
Center Orlando, Orlando, FL; University of Pennsylvania, Philadelphia, PA.

Preoperative therapy allows for a higher rate of breast conserving surgery and 
has been shown equivalent to adjuvant therapy. Preoperative therapy provides an 
opportunity to obtain insights into breast cancer biology and to accelerate the 
evaluation of new therapies. Clinical trials have shown that women who achieve a 
pathologic complete response (pCR) have substantially improved outcomes compared 
with those who do not achieve a pCR. The U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA) 
meta-analysis demonstrated that the association of pCR and long-term outcomes is 
greater in women with aggressive breast cancer subtypes. In patients with HER2+ 
breast cancer, the addition of trastuzumab to chemotherapy in the neoadjuvant 
setting has doubled pCR and correlated with improved outcomes. Clinical trials 
will evaluate tailoring the use of radiation therapy in patients who have 
received neoadjuvant therapy. Trials have established neoadjuvant endocrine 
therapy as a valid treatment and research option for ER-rich breast cancer. The 
neoadjuvant setting allows for evaluation of endocrine therapies in combination 
with newer targeted therapies in the appropriate patient populations. The 
neoadjuvant setting provides opportunity to accelerate the evaluation of new 
agents, improve pCR rates, and identify predictive biomarkers for response. This 
setting provides the opportunity for screening new agents in combination with 
chemotherapy while obtaining serial biopsies to understand biology of response 
and resistance. Although current standard therapies provide substantial benefits 
for patients with a pCR, patients with residual disease are at substantial risk 
for disease recurrence. New agents are being evaluated in patients with 
high-risk residual disease following standard treatment regimens.

DOI: 10.14694/EdBook_AM.2013.33.73
PMID: 23714461 [Indexed for MEDLINE]