1. Chin Clin Oncol. 2020 Jun;9(3):27. doi: 10.21037/cco.2020.01.06. Epub 2020 Mar
 13.

Biomarkers of neoadjuvant/adjuvant chemotherapy for breast cancer.

Iwamoto T(1), Kajiwara Y(2), Zhu Y(2), Iha S(3).

Author information:
(1)Department of Breast and Endocrine Surgery, Okayama University Hospital, 
Okayama, Japan. tiwamoto@md.okayama-u.ac.jp.
(2)Department of Breast and Endocrine Surgery, Okayama University Hospital, 
Okayama, Japan.
(3)Department of Breast Oncology, Miyake Ofuku Clinic, Okayama, Japan.

The improvement of tumor biomarkers prepared for clinical use is a long process. 
A good biomarker should predict not only prognosis but also the response to 
therapies. In this review, we describe the biomarkers of neoadjuvant/adjuvant 
chemotherapy for breast cancer, considering different breast cancer subtypes. In 
hormone receptor (HR)-positive/human epidermal growth factor 2 (HER2)-negative 
breast cancers, various genomic markers highly associated with proliferation 
have been tested. Among them, only two genomic signatures, the 21-gene 
recurrence score and 70-gene signature, have been reported in prospective 
randomized clinical trials and met the primary endpoint. However, these genomic 
markers did not suffice in HER2-positive and triple-negative (TN) breast 
cancers, which present only classical clinical and pathological information 
(tumor size, nodal or distant metastatic status) for decision making in the 
adjuvant setting in daily clinic. Recently, patients with residual invasive 
cancer after neoadjuvant chemotherapy are at a high-risk of recurrence for 
metastasis, which, in turn, make these patients best applicants for clinical 
trials. Two clinical trials have shown improved outcomes with post-operative 
capecitabine and ado-trastuzumab emtansine treatment in patients with either TN 
or HER2-positive breast cancer, respectively, who had residual disease after 
neoadjuvant chemotherapy. Furthermore, tumor-infiltrating lymphocytes (TILs) 
have been reported to have a predictive value for prognosis and response to 
chemotherapy from the retrospective analyses. So far, TILs have to not be used 
to either withhold or prescribe chemotherapy based on the absence of 
standardized evaluation guidelines and confirmed information. To overcome the 
low reproducibility of evaluations of TILs, gene signatures or digital image 
analysis and machine learning algorithms with artificial intelligence may be 
useful for standardization of assessment for TILs in the future.

DOI: 10.21037/cco.2020.01.06
PMID: 32192349 [Indexed for MEDLINE]