1. JCO Precis Oncol. 2022 Jan;6:e2100120. doi: 10.1200/PO.21.00120.

Circulating T-Cell Repertoires Correlate With the Tumor Response in Patients 
With Breast Cancer Receiving Neoadjuvant Chemotherapy.

Cai G(1), Guan Z(1), Jin Y(1), Su Z(1), Chen X(1), Liu Q(1), Wang C(2), Yin 
X(3), Zhang L(1), Ye G(1), Luo W(1).

Author information:
(1)The First People's Hospital of Foshan, Foshan, China.
(2)iRepertoire, Inc, Huntsville, AL.
(3)Cyberspace Institute of Advanced Technology, Guangzhou University, Guangzhou, 
China.

PURPOSE: Neoadjuvant chemotherapy (NAC) has been widely used in patients with 
breast cancer to minish tumor burden and increase resection rate of cancer. 
T-cell repertoire has been believed to be able to monitor antitumor immune 
responses. This study aimed to explore the dynamic change of T-cell repertoire 
and its clinical value in evaluating the tumor response in patients with breast 
cancer receiving NAC.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: Ninety-four patients who underwent NAC before surgery 
were recruited, and peripheral blood samples were collected at multiple time 
points during NAC. High-throughput T-cell receptor (TCR)-β sequencing was used 
to characterize the T-cell repertoire of every sample and analyzed the changes 
in circulating T-cell repertoire during NAC.
RESULTS: We found that the diversity of TCR repertoires was associated with age 
and clinical stage of the patients with breast cancer. The distribution of Vβ 
and Jβ genes in TCR repertoires was skewed in patients with human epidermal 
growth factor receptor 2-positive (HER2+) breast cancer. Vβ20.1 and Vβ30 
expression levels before NAC correlate with tumor response after all cycles of 
NAC in HER2- and HER2+ patients, respectively. Some CDR3 motifs that correlated 
with clinical response in either HER2+ or HER2- patients were identified. 
Besides, TCR repertoire evolved during NAC and the diversity of TCR repertoire 
decreased more after two cycles of NAC in patients with good tumor response 
after all cycles of NAC (P = .0061).
CONCLUSION: Our results demonstrated that TCR repertoire correlated with the 
characteristics of the tumor, such as the expression status of HER2. Moreover, 
some characteristics of TCR repertoires that correlated with clinical response 
were identified and they might provide useful information to tailor therapeutic 
regimens at the early cycle of NAC.

DOI: 10.1200/PO.21.00120
PMCID: PMC8769146
PMID: 35025620 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Chunlin WangEmployment: Chapter 
DiagnosticsLeadership: Chapter DiagnosticsStock and Other Ownership Interests: 
iRepertoire, Chapter DiagnosticsNo other potential conflicts of interest were 
reported.