1. Cancer Biother Radiopharm. 2025 Sep;40(7):481-489. doi: 10.1089/cbr.2025.0038.
 Epub 2025 Apr 17.

High Expression of Complement 3 Enhances the Efficacy of Neoadjuvant 
Chemotherapy Prior to Oncoplastic Surgery for HER2-Positive Breast Cancer.

Chen B(1), Huang L(2)(3), Gui M(1), Torres-de la Roche LA(4), De Wilde RL(4), 
Shi W(5), Liu H(6), Gong Z(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Medical Aesthetic Surgery, The First Affiliated Hospital of 
Guilin Medical University, Guilin, China.
(2)Clinicopathological Diagnosis & Research Center, the Affiliated Hospital of 
Youjiang Medical University for Nationalities, Baise, China.
(3)Key Laboratory of Tumor Molecular Pathology of Guangxi Higher Education 
Institutes, Baise, China.
(4)Pius-Hospital, University Hospital for Gynecology, University Medicine 
Oldenburg, Oldenburg, Germany.
(5)Medical Faculty and University Hospital Magdeburg, Molecular and Experimental 
Surgery, Clinic for General, Visceral, Vascular and Transplantation Surgery, 
Otto-von-Guericke University, Magdeburg, Germany.
(6)School of Public Health, Guilin Medical University, Guilin, China.

Background: Neoadjuvant chemotherapy for breast cancer (BC) improves patient 
prognosis, but its efficacy is hindered by the disease's high heterogeneity. 
This study enhances effectiveness of targeted therapy to improve clinical 
outcomes. Methods: This study enrolled 335 patients from three centers. 
Differentially expressed genes were identified using DESeq2, and Venn analysis 
was applied to identify hub Complement genes. Hub gene expression was validated 
through public databases and IHC in real-world samples. In addition, 
associations between these genes and clinical factors were evaluated. Survival 
analysis, using the log-rank test, assessed overall survival (OS), 
disease-specific survival (DSS), and progression-free interval (PFI) as end 
points. The authors also locate hub Complement 3 gene position by 
immunofluorescence. Results: The study identified C3 as a hub Complement gene 
associated with trastuzumab sensitivity. C3 shows higher expression in normal 
than tumor tissues. C3 was highly expressed in HER2-negative and early-stage BC, 
but showed no differences in lymph node or metastasis subgroups. High C3 
expression correlated with better OS, DSS, and PFI, particularly in HER2+ 
patients. IHC analysis confirmed higher C3 expression in normal tissues with the 
lowest in triple-negative BC. Immunofluorescence findings suggest that C3 
recruits complement receptor 2 to enhance trastuzumab efficacy in HER2+ 
patients. Conclusions: This finding highlights the potential of complement 3 to 
improve therapeutic outcomes and pave the way for more personalized treatment 
strategies in BC.

DOI: 10.1089/cbr.2025.0038
PMID: 40242863 [Indexed for MEDLINE]